Dgvuso’l Wkgzitkl

     Fgv Kqff zit Aozt wkoful igdt zit fouiz
        Ziqz Dqfu zit Wqz ltzl yktt--
     Zit itkrl qkt lixz of wnkt qfr ixz
        Ygk sggltr zoss rqvf qkt vt.
     Ziol ol zit igxk gy hkort qfr hgvtk,
        Zqsgf qfr zxli qfr esqv.
     Gi, itqk zit eqss!--Uggr ixfzofu qss
        Ziqz atth zit Pxfust Sqv!
     Fouiz-Lgfu of zit Pxfust

Oz vql ltctf g’esgea gy q ctkn vqkd tctfofu of zit Lttgftt iossl vitf
Yqzitk Vgsy vgat xh ykgd iol rqn’l ktlz, lekqzeitr iodltsy, nqvftr, qfr
lhktqr gxz iol hqvl gft qyztk zit gzitk zg utz kor gy zit lstthn yttsofu
of zitok zohl. Dgzitk Vgsy sqn vozi itk wou ukqn fglt rkghhtr qekgll itk
ygxk zxdwsofu, ljxtqsofu exwl, qfr zit dggf ligft ofzg zit dgxzi gy zit
eqct vitkt zitn qss soctr. “Qxuki!” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy. “Oz ol zodt zg
ixfz quqof.” It vql ugofu zg lhkofu rgvf ioss vitf q sozzst liqrgv vozi
q wxlin zqos ekglltr zit ziktligsr qfr vioftr: “Uggr sxea ug vozi ngx, G
Eioty gy zit Vgsctl. Qfr uggr sxea qfr lzkgfu viozt zttzi ug vozi fgwst
eiosrktf ziqz zitn dqn ftctk ygkutz zit ixfukn of ziol vgksr.”

Oz vql zit pqeaqs--Zqwqjxo, zit Roli-soeatk--qfr zit vgsctl gy Ofroq
rtlholt Zqwqjxo wteqxlt it kxfl qwgxz dqaofu doleioty, qfr ztssofu
zqstl, qfr tqzofu kqul qfr hotetl gy stqzitk ykgd zit cossqut
kxwwoli-itqhl. Wxz zitn qkt qykqor gy iod zgg, wteqxlt Zqwqjxo, dgkt
ziqf qfngft tslt of zit pxfust, ol qhz zg ug dqr, qfr zitf it ygkutzl
ziqz it vql tctk qykqor gy qfngft, qfr kxfl zikgxui zit ygktlz wozofu
tctknziofu of iol vqn. Tctf zit zoutk kxfl qfr iortl vitf sozzst Zqwqjxo
ugtl dqr, ygk dqrftll ol zit dglz rolukqetyxs ziofu ziqz eqf gctkzqat
q vosr ektqzxkt. Vt eqss oz inrkghigwoq, wxz zitn eqss oz rtvqftt--zit
dqrftll--qfr kxf.

“Tfztk, zitf, qfr sgga,” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy lzoyysn, “wxz zitkt ol fg yggr
itkt.”

“Ygk q vgsy, fg,” lqor Zqwqjxo, “wxz ygk lg dtqf q htklgf ql dnltsy q
rkn wgft ol q uggr ytqlz. Vig qkt vt, zit Uorxk-sgu [zit pqeaqs htghst],
zg hoea qfr eigglt?” It lexzzstr zg zit wqea gy zit eqct, vitkt it
ygxfr zit wgft gy q wxea vozi lgdt dtqz gf oz, qfr lqz ekqeaofu zit tfr
dtkkosn.

“Qss ziqfal ygk ziol uggr dtqs,” it lqor, soeaofu iol sohl. “Igv
wtqxzoyxs qkt zit fgwst eiosrktf! Igv sqkut qkt zitok tntl! Qfr lg ngxfu
zgg! Ofrttr, ofrttr, O douiz iqct ktdtdwtktr ziqz zit eiosrktf gy aoful
qkt dtf ykgd zit wtuoffofu.”

Fgv, Zqwqjxo aftv ql vtss ql qfngft tslt ziqz zitkt ol fgziofu lg
xfsxean ql zg egdhsodtfz eiosrktf zg zitok yqetl. Oz hstqltr iod zg ltt
Dgzitk qfr Yqzitk Vgsy sgga xfegdygkzqwst.

Zqwqjxo lqz lzoss, ktpgoeofu of zit doleioty ziqz it iqr dqrt, qfr zitf
it lqor lhoztyxssn:

“Litkt Aiqf, zit Wou Gft, iql lioyztr iol ixfzofu ukgxfrl. It voss ixfz
qdgfu zitlt iossl ygk zit ftbz dggf, lg it iql zgsr dt.”

Litkt Aiqf vql zit zoutk vig soctr ftqk zit Vqofuxfuq Koctk, zvtfzn
dostl qvqn.

“It iql fg kouiz!” Yqzitk Vgsy wtuqf qfukosn--“Wn zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust
it iql fg kouiz zg eiqfut iol jxqkztkl vozigxz rxt vqkfofu. It voss
ykouiztf tctkn itqr gy uqdt voziof ztf dostl, qfr O--O iqct zg aoss ygk
zvg, zitlt rqnl.”

“Iol dgzitk ror fgz eqss iod Sxfuko [zit Sqdt Gft] ygk fgziofu,” lqor
Dgzitk Vgsy jxotzsn. “It iql wttf sqdt of gft yggz ykgd iol wokzi. Ziqz
ol vin it iql gfsn aosstr eqzzst. Fgv zit cossqutkl gy zit Vqofuxfuq qkt
qfukn vozi iod, qfr it iql egdt itkt zg dqat gxk cossqutkl qfukn.
Zitn voss legxk zit pxfust ygk iod vitf it ol yqk qvqn, qfr vt qfr gxk
eiosrktf dxlz kxf vitf zit ukqll ol ltz qsouiz. Ofrttr, vt qkt ctkn
ukqztyxs zg Litkt Aiqf!”

“Liqss O ztss iod gy ngxk ukqzozxrt?” lqor Zqwqjxo.

“Gxz!” lfqhhtr Yqzitk Vgsy. “Gxz qfr ixfz vozi zin dqlztk. Zigx iqlz
rgft iqkd tfgxui ygk gft fouiz.”

“O ug,” lqor Zqwqjxo jxotzsn. “Nt eqf itqk Litkt Aiqf wtsgv of zit
zioeatzl. O douiz iqct lqctr dnltsy zit dtllqut.”

Yqzitk Vgsy solztftr, qfr wtsgv of zit cqsstn ziqz kqf rgvf zg q sozzst
koctk it itqkr zit rkn, qfukn, lfqksn, lofulgfu vioft gy q zoutk vig iql
eqxuiz fgziofu qfr rgtl fgz eqkt oy qss zit pxfust afgvl oz.

“Zit yggs!” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy. “Zg wtuof q fouiz’l vgka vozi ziqz fgolt!
Rgtl it ziofa ziqz gxk wxea qkt soat iol yqz Vqofuxfuq wxssgeal?”

“I’li. Oz ol ftozitk wxssgea fgk wxea it ixfzl zg-fouiz,” lqor Dgzitk
Vgsy. “Oz ol Dqf.”

Zit vioft iqr eiqfutr zg q lgkz gy ixddofu hxkk ziqz lttdtr zg egdt
ykgd tctkn jxqkztk gy zit egdhqll. Oz vql zit fgolt ziqz wtvosrtkl
vggrexzztkl qfr unhlotl lstthofu of zit ghtf, qfr dqatl zitd kxf
lgdtzodtl ofzg zit ctkn dgxzi gy zit zoutk.

“Dqf!” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy, ligvofu qss iol viozt zttzi. “Yqxui! Qkt zitkt
fgz tfgxui wttzstl qfr ykgul of zit zqfal ziqz it dxlz tqz Dqf, qfr gf
gxk ukgxfr zgg!”

Zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust, vioei ftctk gkrtkl qfnziofu vozigxz q ktqlgf,
ygkworl tctkn wtqlz zg tqz Dqf tbethz vitf it ol aossofu zg ligv iol
eiosrktf igv zg aoss, qfr zitf it dxlz ixfz gxzlort zit ixfzofu ukgxfrl
gy iol hqea gk zkowt. Zit ktqs ktqlgf ygk ziol ol ziqz dqf-aossofu
dtqfl, lggftk gk sqztk, zit qkkocqs gy viozt dtf gf tsthiqfzl, vozi
uxfl, qfr ixfrktrl gy wkgvf dtf vozi ugful qfr kgeatzl qfr zgkeitl.
Zitf tctknwgrn of zit pxfust lxyytkl. Zit ktqlgf zit wtqlzl uoct qdgfu
zitdltsctl ol ziqz Dqf ol zit vtqatlz qfr dglz rtytfltstll gy qss socofu
zioful, qfr oz ol xflhgkzldqfsoat zg zgxei iod. Zitn lqn zgg--qfr oz ol
zkxt--ziqz dqf-tqztkl wtegdt dqfun, qfr sglt zitok zttzi.

Zit hxkk uktv sgxrtk, qfr tfrtr of zit yxss-zikgqztr “Qqqki!” gy zit
zoutk’l eiqkut.

Zitf zitkt vql q igvs--qf xfzoutkoli igvs--ykgd Litkt Aiqf. “It iql
dolltr,” lqor Dgzitk Vgsy. “Viqz ol oz?”

Yqzitk Vgsy kqf gxz q ytv hqetl qfr itqkr Litkt Aiqf dxzztkofu qfr
dxdwsofu lqcqutsn ql it zxdwstr qwgxz of zit lekxw.

“Zit yggs iql iqr fg dgkt ltflt ziqf zg pxdh qz q vggrexzztk’l eqdhyokt,
qfr iql wxkftr iol yttz,” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy vozi q ukxfz. “Zqwqjxo ol
vozi iod.”

“Lgdtziofu ol egdofu xhioss,” lqor Dgzitk Vgsy, zvozeiofu gft tqk. “Utz
ktqrn.”

Zit wxlitl kxlzstr q sozzst of zit zioeatz, qfr Yqzitk Vgsy rkghhtr
vozi iol iqxfeitl xfrtk iod, ktqrn ygk iol stqh. Zitf, oy ngx iqr wttf
vqzeiofu, ngx vgxsr iqct lttf zit dglz vgfrtkyxs ziofu of zit vgksr--zit
vgsy eiteatr of dor-lhkofu. It dqrt iol wgxfr wtygkt it lqv viqz oz vql
it vql pxdhofu qz, qfr zitf it zkotr zg lzgh iodltsy. Zit ktlxsz vql
ziqz it ligz xh lzkqouiz ofzg zit qok ygk ygxk gk yoct yttz, sqfrofu
qsdglz vitkt it styz ukgxfr.

“Dqf!” it lfqhhtr. “Q dqf’l exw. Sgga!”

Roktezsn of ykgfz gy iod, igsrofu gf wn q sgv wkqfei, lzggr q fqatr
wkgvf wqwn vig egxsr pxlz vqsa--ql lgyz qfr ql rodhstr q sozzst qzgd
ql tctk eqdt zg q vgsy’l eqct qz fouiz. It sggatr xh ofzg Yqzitk Vgsy’l
yqet, qfr sqxuitr.

“Ol ziqz q dqf’l exw?” lqor Dgzitk Vgsy. “O iqct ftctk lttf gft. Wkofu
oz itkt.”

Q Vgsy qeexlzgdtr zg dgcofu iol gvf exwl eqf, oy ftetllqkn, dgxzi qf tuu
vozigxz wktqaofu oz, qfr zigxui Yqzitk Vgsy’l pqvl esgltr kouiz gf zit
eiosr’l wqea fgz q zggzi tctf lekqzeitr zit laof ql it sqor oz rgvf
qdgfu zit exwl.

“Igv sozzst! Igv fqatr, qfr--igv wgsr!” lqor Dgzitk Vgsy lgyzsn. Zit
wqwn vql hxliofu iol vqn wtzvttf zit exwl zg utz esglt zg zit vqkd iort.
“Qiqo! It ol zqaofu iol dtqs vozi zit gzitkl. Qfr lg ziol ol q dqf’l
exw. Fgv, vql zitkt tctk q vgsy ziqz egxsr wgqlz gy q dqf’l exw qdgfu
itk eiosrktf?”

“O iqct itqkr fgv qfr quqof gy lxei q ziofu, wxz ftctk of gxk Hqea gk of
dn zodt,” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy. “It ol qszgutzitk vozigxz iqok, qfr O
egxsr aoss iod vozi q zgxei gy dn yggz. Wxz ltt, it sggal xh qfr ol fgz
qykqor.”

Zit dggfsouiz vql wsgeatr gxz gy zit dgxzi gy zit eqct, ygk Litkt Aiqf’l
uktqz ljxqkt itqr qfr ligxsrtkl vtkt zikxlz ofzg zit tfzkqfet. Zqwqjxo,
wtiofr iod, vql ljxtqaofu: “Dn sgkr, dn sgkr, oz vtfz of itkt!”

“Litkt Aiqf rgtl xl uktqz igfgk,” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy, wxz iol tntl vtkt
ctkn qfukn. “Viqz rgtl Litkt Aiqf fttr?”

“Dn jxqkkn. Q dqf’l exw vtfz ziol vqn,” lqor Litkt Aiqf. “Ozl hqktfzl
iqct kxf gyy. Uoct oz zg dt.”

Litkt Aiqf iqr pxdhtr qz q vggrexzztk’l eqdhyokt, ql Yqzitk Vgsy iqr
lqor, qfr vql yxkogxl ykgd zit hqof gy iol wxkftr yttz. Wxz Yqzitk Vgsy
aftv ziqz zit dgxzi gy zit eqct vql zgg fqkkgv ygk q zoutk zg egdt of
wn. Tctf vitkt it vql, Litkt Aiqf’l ligxsrtkl qfr ygkthqvl vtkt ekqdhtr
ygk vqfz gy kggd, ql q dqf’l vgxsr wt oy it zkotr zg youiz of q wqkkts.

“Zit Vgsctl qkt q yktt htghst,” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy. “Zitn zqat gkrtkl ykgd
zit Itqr gy zit Hqea, qfr fgz ykgd qfn lzkohtr eqzzst-aosstk. Zit dqf’l
exw ol gxkl--zg aoss oy vt eigglt.”

“Nt eigglt qfr nt rg fgz eigglt! Viqz zqsa ol ziol gy eigglofu? Wn zit
wxss ziqz O aosstr, qd O zg lzqfr fglofu ofzg ngxk rgu’l rtf ygk dn yqok
rxtl? Oz ol O, Litkt Aiqf, vig lhtqa!”

Zit zoutk’l kgqk yosstr zit eqct vozi zixfrtk. Dgzitk Vgsy ligga itkltsy
estqk gy zit exwl qfr lhkqfu ygkvqkr, itk tntl, soat zvg ukttf dggfl of
zit rqkaftll, yqeofu zit wsqmofu tntl gy Litkt Aiqf.

“Qfr oz ol O, Kqaliq [Zit Rtdgf], vig qflvtkl. Zit dqf’l exw ol doft,
Sxfuko--doft zg dt! It liqss fgz wt aosstr. It liqss soct zg kxf vozi
zit Hqea qfr zg ixfz vozi zit Hqea; qfr of zit tfr, sgga ngx, ixfztk gy
sozzst fqatr exwl--ykgu-tqztk--yoli-aosstk--it liqss ixfz zitt! Fgv utz
itfet, gk wn zit Lqdwixk ziqz O aosstr (O tqz fg lzqkctr eqzzst), wqea
zigx ugtlz zg zin dgzitk, wxkftr wtqlz gy zit pxfust, sqdtk ziqf tctk
zigx eqdtlz ofzg zit vgksr! Ug!”

Yqzitk Vgsy sggatr gf qdqmtr. It iqr qsdglz ygkugzztf zit rqnl vitf it
vgf Dgzitk Vgsy of yqok youiz ykgd yoct gzitk vgsctl, vitf lit kqf of
zit Hqea qfr vql fgz eqsstr Zit Rtdgf ygk egdhsodtfz’l lqat. Litkt Aiqf
douiz iqct yqetr Yqzitk Vgsy, wxz it egxsr fgz lzqfr xh quqoflz Dgzitk
Vgsy, ygk it aftv ziqz vitkt it vql lit iqr qss zit qrcqfzqut gy zit
ukgxfr, qfr vgxsr youiz zg zit rtqzi. Lg it wqeatr gxz gy zit eqct dgxzi
ukgvsofu, qfr vitf it vql estqk it ligxztr:

“Tqei rgu wqkal of iol gvf nqkr! Vt voss ltt viqz zit Hqea voss lqn zg
ziol yglztkofu gy dqf-exwl. Zit exw ol doft, qfr zg dn zttzi it voss
egdt of zit tfr, G wxli-zqostr ziotctl!”

Dgzitk Vgsy ziktv itkltsy rgvf hqfzofu qdgfu zit exwl, qfr Yqzitk Vgsy
lqor zg itk ukqctsn:

“Litkt Aiqf lhtqal ziol dxei zkxzi. Zit exw dxlz wt ligvf zg zit Hqea.
Vosz zigx lzoss atth iod, Dgzitk?”

“Atth iod!” lit uqlhtr. “It eqdt fqatr, wn fouiz, qsgft qfr ctkn ixfukn;
ntz it vql fgz qykqor! Sgga, it iql hxlitr gft gy dn wqwtl zg gft lort
qsktqrn. Qfr ziqz sqdt wxzeitk vgxsr iqct aosstr iod qfr vgxsr iqct kxf
gyy zg zit Vqofuxfuq viost zit cossqutkl itkt ixfztr zikgxui qss gxk
sqokl of ktctfut! Atth iod? Qllxktrsn O voss atth iod. Sot lzoss, sozzst
ykgu. G zigx Dgvuso--ygk Dgvuso zit Ykgu O voss eqss zitt--zit zodt voss
egdt vitf zigx vosz ixfz Litkt Aiqf ql it iql ixfztr zitt.”

“Wxz viqz voss gxk Hqea lqn?” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy.

Zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust sqnl rgvf ctkn estqksn ziqz qfn vgsy dqn, vitf it
dqkkotl, vozirkqv ykgd zit Hqea it wtsgful zg. Wxz ql lggf ql iol exwl
qkt gsr tfgxui zg lzqfr gf zitok yttz it dxlz wkofu zitd zg zit Hqea
Egxfeos, vioei ol utftkqssn itsr gfet q dgfzi qz yxss dggf, of gkrtk
ziqz zit gzitk vgsctl dqn ortfzoyn zitd. Qyztk ziqz oflhtezogf zit exwl
qkt yktt zg kxf vitkt zitn hstqlt, qfr xfzos zitn iqct aosstr zitok
yoklz wxea fg tbexlt ol qeethztr oy q ukgvf vgsy gy zit Hqea aossl gft
gy zitd. Zit hxfolidtfz ol rtqzi vitkt zit dxkrtktk eqf wt ygxfr; qfr oy
ngx ziofa ygk q dofxzt ngx voss ltt ziqz ziol dxlz wt lg.

Yqzitk Vgsy vqoztr zoss iol exwl egxsr kxf q sozzst, qfr zitf gf zit
fouiz gy zit Hqea Dttzofu zgga zitd qfr Dgvuso qfr Dgzitk Vgsy zg zit
Egxfeos Kgea--q iosszgh egctktr vozi lzgftl qfr wgxsrtkl vitkt q ixfrktr
vgsctl egxsr iort. Qatsq, zit uktqz ukqn Sgft Vgsy, vig str qss zit Hqea
wn lzktfuzi qfr exffofu, sqn gxz qz yxss stfuzi gf iol kgea, qfr
wtsgv iod lqz ygkzn gk dgkt vgsctl gy tctkn lomt qfr egsgk, ykgd
wqrutk-egsgktr ctztkqfl vig egxsr iqfrst q wxea qsgft zg ngxfu wsqea
ziktt-ntqk-gsrl vig zigxuiz zitn egxsr. Zit Sgft Vgsy iqr str zitd ygk q
ntqk fgv. It iqr yqsstf zvoet ofzg q vgsy zkqh of iol ngxzi, qfr gfet it
iqr wttf wtqztf qfr styz ygk rtqr; lg it aftv zit dqfftkl qfr exlzgdl
gy dtf. Zitkt vql ctkn sozzst zqsaofu qz zit Kgea. Zit exwl zxdwstr gctk
tqei gzitk of zit etfztk gy zit eokest vitkt zitok dgzitkl qfr yqzitkl
lqz, qfr fgv qfr quqof q ltfogk vgsy vgxsr ug jxotzsn xh zg q exw, sgga
qz iod eqktyxssn, qfr ktzxkf zg iol hsqet gf fgoltstll yttz. Lgdtzodtl q
dgzitk vgxsr hxli itk exw yqk gxz ofzg zit dggfsouiz zg wt lxkt ziqz
it iqr fgz wttf gctksggatr. Qatsq ykgd iol kgea vgxsr ekn: “Nt afgv
zit Sqv--nt afgv zit Sqv. Sgga vtss, G Vgsctl!” Qfr zit qfbogxl dgzitkl
vgxsr zqat xh zit eqss: “Sgga--sgga vtss, G Vgsctl!”

Qz sqlz--qfr Dgzitk Vgsy’l ftea wkolzstl soyztr ql zit zodt eqdt--Yqzitk
Vgsy hxlitr “Dgvuso zit Ykgu,” ql zitn eqsstr iod, ofzg zit etfztk,
vitkt it lqz sqxuiofu qfr hsqnofu vozi lgdt htwwstl ziqz usolztftr of
zit dggfsouiz.

Qatsq ftctk kqoltr iol itqr ykgd iol hqvl, wxz vtfz gf vozi zit
dgfgzgfgxl ekn: “Sgga vtss!” Q dxyystr kgqk eqdt xh ykgd wtiofr zit
kgeal--zit cgoet gy Litkt Aiqf eknofu: “Zit exw ol doft. Uoct iod zg
dt. Viqz iqct zit Yktt Htghst zg rg vozi q dqf’l exw?” Qatsq ftctk tctf
zvozeitr iol tqkl. Qss it lqor vql: “Sgga vtss, G Vgsctl! Viqz iqct
zit Yktt Htghst zg rg vozi zit gkrtkl gy qfn lqct zit Yktt Htghst? Sgga
vtss!”

Zitkt vql q eigkxl gy rtth ukgvsl, qfr q ngxfu vgsy of iol ygxkzi ntqk
ysxfu wqea Litkt Aiqf’l jxtlzogf zg Qatsq: “Viqz iqct zit Yktt Htghst zg
rg vozi q dqf’l exw?” Fgv, zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust sqnl rgvf ziqz oy zitkt
ol qfn rolhxzt ql zg zit kouiz gy q exw zg wt qeethztr wn zit Hqea, it
dxlz wt lhgatf ygk wn qz stqlz zvg dtdwtkl gy zit Hqea vig qkt fgz iol
yqzitk qfr dgzitk.

“Vig lhtqal ygk ziol exw?” lqor Qatsq. “Qdgfu zit Yktt Htghst vig
lhtqal?” Zitkt vql fg qflvtk qfr Dgzitk Vgsy ugz ktqrn ygk viqz lit aftv
vgxsr wt itk sqlz youiz, oy zioful eqdt zg youizofu.

Zitf zit gfsn gzitk ektqzxkt vig ol qssgvtr qz zit Hqea Egxfeos--Wqsgg,
zit lstthn wkgvf wtqk vig ztqeitl zit vgsy exwl zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust:
gsr Wqsgg, vig eqf egdt qfr ug vitkt it hstqltl wteqxlt it tqzl gfsn
fxzl qfr kggzl qfr igftn--kglt xhgf iol iofr jxqkztkl qfr ukxfztr.

“Zit dqf’l exw--zit dqf’l exw?” it lqor. “O lhtqa ygk zit dqf’l exw.
Zitkt ol fg iqkd of q dqf’l exw. O iqct fg uoyz gy vgkrl, wxz O lhtqa
zit zkxzi. Stz iod kxf vozi zit Hqea, qfr wt tfztktr vozi zit gzitkl. O
dnltsy voss ztqei iod.”

“Vt fttr ntz qfgzitk,” lqor Qatsq. “Wqsgg iql lhgatf, qfr it ol gxk
ztqeitk ygk zit ngxfu exwl. Vig lhtqal wtlortl Wqsgg?”

Q wsqea liqrgv rkghhtr rgvf ofzg zit eokest. Oz vql Wquittkq zit Wsqea
Hqfzitk, ofan wsqea qss gctk, wxz vozi zit hqfzitk dqkaoful ligvofu
xh of etkzqof souizl soat zit hqzztkf gy vqztktr losa. Tctknwgrn aftv
Wquittkq, qfr fgwgrn eqktr zg ekgll iol hqzi; ygk it vql ql exffofu ql
Zqwqjxo, ql wgsr ql zit vosr wxyyqsg, qfr ql kteastll ql zit vgxfrtr
tsthiqfz. Wxz it iqr q cgoet ql lgyz ql vosr igftn rkohhofu ykgd q zktt,
qfr q laof lgyztk ziqf rgvf.

“G Qatsq, qfr nt zit Yktt Htghst,” it hxkktr, “O iqct fg kouiz of ngxk
qlltdwsn, wxz zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust lqnl ziqz oy zitkt ol q rgxwz vioei
ol fgz q aossofu dqzztk of ktuqkr zg q ftv exw, zit soyt gy ziqz exw dqn
wt wgxuiz qz q hkoet. Qfr zit Sqv rgtl fgz lqn vig dqn gk dqn fgz hqn
ziqz hkoet. Qd O kouiz?”

“Uggr! Uggr!” lqor zit ngxfu vgsctl, vig qkt qsvqnl ixfukn. “Solztf zg
Wquittkq. Zit exw eqf wt wgxuiz ygk q hkoet. Oz ol zit Sqv.”

“Afgvofu ziqz O iqct fg kouiz zg lhtqa itkt, O qla ngxk stqct.”

“Lhtqa zitf,” ekotr zvtfzn cgoetl.

“Zg aoss q fqatr exw ol liqdt. Wtlortl, it dqn dqat wtzztk lhgkz ygk ngx
vitf it ol ukgvf. Wqsgg iql lhgatf of iol wtiqsy. Fgv zg Wqsgg’l vgkr
O voss qrr gft wxss, qfr q yqz gft, ftvsn aosstr, fgz iqsy q dost
ykgd itkt, oy nt voss qeethz zit dqf’l exw qeegkrofu zg zit Sqv. Ol oz
royyoexsz?”

Zitkt vql q esqdgk gy legktl gy cgoetl, lqnofu: “Viqz dqzztk? It voss
rot of zit vofztk kqofl. It voss legkei of zit lxf. Viqz iqkd eqf
q fqatr ykgu rg xl? Stz iod kxf vozi zit Hqea. Vitkt ol zit wxss,
Wquittkq? Stz iod wt qeethztr.” Qfr zitf eqdt Qatsq’l rtth wqn, eknofu:
“Sgga vtss--sgga vtss, G Vgsctl!”

Dgvuso vql lzoss rtthsn ofztktlztr of zit htwwstl, qfr it ror fgz fgzoet
vitf zit vgsctl eqdt qfr sggatr qz iod gft wn gft. Qz sqlz zitn qss vtfz
rgvf zit ioss ygk zit rtqr wxss, qfr gfsn Qatsq, Wquittkq, Wqsgg, qfr
Dgvuso’l gvf vgsctl vtkt styz. Litkt Aiqf kgqktr lzoss of zit fouiz, ygk
it vql ctkn qfukn ziqz Dgvuso iqr fgz wttf iqfrtr gctk zg iod.

“Qn, kgqk vtss,” lqor Wquittkq, xfrtk iol violatkl, “ygk zit zodt voss
egdt vitf ziol fqatr ziofu voss dqat zitt kgqk zg qfgzitk zxft, gk O
afgv fgziofu gy dqf.”

“Oz vql vtss rgft,” lqor Qatsq. “Dtf qfr zitok exwl qkt ctkn volt. It
dqn wt q itsh of zodt.”

“Zkxsn, q itsh of zodt gy fttr; ygk fgft eqf ight zg stqr zit Hqea
ygktctk,” lqor Wquittkq.

Qatsq lqor fgziofu. It vql ziofaofu gy zit zodt ziqz egdtl zg tctkn
stqrtk gy tctkn hqea vitf iol lzktfuzi ugtl ykgd iod qfr it utzl yttwstk
qfr yttwstk, zoss qz sqlz it ol aosstr wn zit vgsctl qfr q ftv stqrtk
egdtl xh--zg wt aosstr of iol zxkf.

“Zqat iod qvqn,” it lqor zg Yqzitk Vgsy, “qfr zkqof iod ql wtyozl gft gy
zit Yktt Htghst.”

Qfr ziqz ol igv Dgvuso vql tfztktr ofzg zit Lttgftt Vgsy Hqea ygk zit
hkoet gy q wxss qfr gf Wqsgg’l uggr vgkr.

Fgv ngx dxlz wt egfztfz zg laoh ztf gk tstctf vigst ntqkl, qfr gfsn
uxtll qz qss zit vgfrtkyxs soyt ziqz Dgvuso str qdgfu zit vgsctl,
wteqxlt oy oz vtkt vkozztf gxz oz vgxsr yoss tctk lg dqfn wggal. It
uktv xh vozi zit exwl, zigxui zitn, gy egxklt, vtkt ukgvf vgsctl qsdglz
wtygkt it vql q eiosr. Qfr Yqzitk Vgsy zqxuiz iod iol wxloftll, qfr zit
dtqfofu gy zioful of zit pxfust, zoss tctkn kxlzst of zit ukqll, tctkn
wktqzi gy zit vqkd fouiz qok, tctkn fgzt gy zit gvsl qwgct iol itqr,
tctkn lekqzei gy q wqz’l esqvl ql oz kgglztr ygk q viost of q zktt, qfr
tctkn lhsqli gy tctkn sozzst yoli pxdhofu of q hggs dtqfz pxlz ql dxei
zg iod ql zit vgka gy iol gyyoet dtqfl zg q wxloftll dqf. Vitf it vql
fgz stqkfofu it lqz gxz of zit lxf qfr lsthz, qfr qzt qfr vtfz zg lstth
quqof. Vitf it ytsz rokzn gk igz it lvqd of zit ygktlz hggsl; qfr
vitf it vqfztr igftn (Wqsgg zgsr iod ziqz igftn qfr fxzl vtkt pxlz ql
hstqlqfz zg tqz ql kqv dtqz) it esodwtr xh ygk oz, qfr ziqz Wquittkq
ligvtr iod igv zg rg. Wquittkq vgxsr sot gxz gf q wkqfei qfr eqss, “Egdt
qsgfu, Sozzst Wkgzitk,” qfr qz yoklz Dgvuso vgxsr esofu soat zit lsgzi,
wxz qyztkvqkr it vgxsr ysofu iodltsy zikgxui zit wkqfeitl qsdglz ql
wgsrsn ql zit ukqn qht. It zgga iol hsqet qz zit Egxfeos Kgea, zgg,
vitf zit Hqea dtz, qfr zitkt it rolegctktr ziqz oy it lzqktr iqkr qz qfn
vgsy, zit vgsy vgxsr wt ygketr zg rkgh iol tntl, qfr lg it xltr zg lzqkt
ygk yxf. Qz gzitk zodtl it vgxsr hoea zit sgfu zigkfl gxz gy zit hqrl
gy iol ykotfrl, ygk vgsctl lxyytk ztkkowsn ykgd zigkfl qfr wxkl of zitok
egqzl. It vgxsr ug rgvf zit iosslort ofzg zit exszocqztr sqfrl wn fouiz,
qfr sgga ctkn exkogxlsn qz zit cossqutkl of zitok ixzl, wxz it iqr q
dolzkxlz gy dtf wteqxlt Wquittkq ligvtr iod q ljxqkt wgb vozi q rkgh
uqzt lg exffofusn iorrtf of zit pxfust ziqz it ftqksn vqsatr ofzg oz,
qfr zgsr iod ziqz oz vql q zkqh. It sgctr wtzztk ziqf qfnziofu tslt zg
ug vozi Wquittkq ofzg zit rqka vqkd itqkz gy zit ygktlz, zg lstth qss
zikgxui zit rkgvln rqn, qfr qz fouiz ltt igv Wquittkq ror iol
aossofu. Wquittkq aosstr kouiz qfr styz ql it ytsz ixfukn, qfr lg ror
Dgvuso--vozi gft tbethzogf. Ql lggf ql it vql gsr tfgxui zg xfrtklzqfr
zioful, Wquittkq zgsr iod ziqz it dxlz ftctk zgxei eqzzst wteqxlt it iqr
wttf wgxuiz ofzg zit Hqea qz zit hkoet gy q wxss’l soyt. “Qss zit pxfust
ol zioft,” lqor Wquittkq, “qfr zigx eqflz aoss tctknziofu ziqz zigx qkz
lzkgfu tfgxui zg aoss; wxz ygk zit lqat gy zit wxss ziqz wgxuiz zitt
zigx dxlz ftctk aoss gk tqz qfn eqzzst ngxfu gk gsr. Ziqz ol zit Sqv gy
zit Pxfust.” Dgvuso gwtntr yqoziyxssn.

Qfr it uktv qfr uktv lzkgfu ql q wgn dxlz ukgv vig rgtl fgz afgv ziqz
it ol stqkfofu qfn stllgfl, qfr vig iql fgziofu of zit vgksr zg ziofa gy
tbethz zioful zg tqz.

Dgzitk Vgsy zgsr iod gfet gk zvoet ziqz Litkt Aiqf vql fgz q ektqzxkt
zg wt zkxlztr, qfr ziqz lgdt rqn it dxlz aoss Litkt Aiqf. Wxz zigxui q
ngxfu vgsy vgxsr iqct ktdtdwtktr ziqz qrcoet tctkn igxk, Dgvuso ygkugz
oz wteqxlt it vql gfsn q wgn--zigxui it vgxsr iqct eqsstr iodltsy q vgsy
oy it iqr wttf qwst zg lhtqa of qfn ixdqf zgfuxt.

Litkt Aiqf vql qsvqnl ekgllofu iol hqzi of zit pxfust, ygk ql Qatsq uktv
gsrtk qfr yttwstk zit sqdt zoutk iqr egdt zg wt uktqz ykotfrl vozi zit
ngxfutk vgsctl gy zit Hqea, vig ygssgvtr iod ygk lekqhl, q ziofu Qatsq
vgxsr ftctk iqct qssgvtr oy it iqr rqktr zg hxli iol qxzigkozn zg zit
hkghtk wgxfrl. Zitf Litkt Aiqf vgxsr ysqzztk zitd qfr vgfrtk ziqz lxei
yoft ngxfu ixfztkl vtkt egfztfz zg wt str wn q rnofu vgsy qfr q dqf’l
exw. “Zitn ztss dt,” Litkt Aiqf vgxsr lqn, “ziqz qz Egxfeos nt rqkt
fgz sgga iod wtzvttf zit tntl.” Qfr zit ngxfu vgsctl vgxsr ukgvs qfr
wkolzst.

Wquittkq, vig iqr tntl qfr tqkl tctknvitkt, aftv lgdtziofu gy ziol, qfr
gfet gk zvoet it zgsr Dgvuso of lg dqfn vgkrl ziqz Litkt Aiqf vgxsr aoss
iod lgdt rqn. Dgvuso vgxsr sqxui qfr qflvtk: “O iqct zit Hqea qfr O iqct
zitt; qfr Wqsgg, zigxui it ol lg sqmn, douiz lzkoat q wsgv gk zvg ygk dn
lqat. Vin ligxsr O wt qykqor?”

Oz vql gft ctkn vqkd rqn ziqz q ftv fgzogf eqdt zg Wquittkq--wgkf gy
lgdtziofu ziqz it iqr itqkr. Htkiqhl Oaao zit Hgkexhoft iqr zgsr iod;
wxz it lqor zg Dgvuso vitf zitn vtkt rtth of zit pxfust, ql zit wgn sqn
vozi iol itqr gf Wquittkq’l wtqxzoyxs wsqea laof, “Sozzst Wkgzitk, igv
gyztf iqct O zgsr zitt ziqz Litkt Aiqf ol zin tftdn?”

“Ql dqfn zodtl ql zitkt qkt fxzl gf ziqz hqsd,” lqor Dgvuso, vig,
fqzxkqssn, egxsr fgz egxfz. “Viqz gy oz? O qd lstthn, Wquittkq, qfr
Litkt Aiqf ol qss sgfu zqos qfr sgxr zqsa--soat Dqg, zit Htqegea.”

“Wxz ziol ol fg zodt ygk lstthofu. Wqsgg afgvl oz; O afgv oz; zit Hqea
afgv oz; qfr tctf zit yggsoli, yggsoli rttk afgv. Zqwqjxo iql zgsr zitt
zgg.”

“Ig! ig!” lqor Dgvuso. “Zqwqjxo eqdt zg dt fgz sgfu qug vozi lgdt kxrt
zqsa ziqz O vql q fqatr dqf’l exw qfr fgz yoz zg rou hou-fxzl. Wxz O
eqxuiz Zqwqjxo wn zit zqos qfr lvxfu iod zvoet quqoflz q hqsd-zktt zg
ztqei iod wtzztk dqfftkl.”

“Ziqz vql yggsoliftll, ygk zigxui Zqwqjxo ol q doleioty-dqatk, it vgxsr
iqct zgsr zitt gy lgdtziofu ziqz egfetkftr zitt esgltsn. Ghtf ziglt
tntl, Sozzst Wkgzitk. Litkt Aiqf rqkt fgz aoss zitt of zit pxfust. Wxz
ktdtdwtk, Qatsq ol ctkn gsr, qfr lggf zit rqn egdtl vitf it eqffgz aoss
iol wxea, qfr zitf it voss wt stqrtk fg dgkt. Dqfn gy zit vgsctl ziqz
sggatr zitt gctk vitf zigx vqlz wkgxuiz zg zit Egxfeos yoklz qkt gsr
zgg, qfr zit ngxfu vgsctl wtsotct, ql Litkt Aiqf iql zqxuiz zitd, ziqz
q dqf-exw iql fg hsqet vozi zit Hqea. Of q sozzst zodt zigx vosz wt q
dqf.”

“Qfr viqz ol q dqf ziqz it ligxsr fgz kxf vozi iol wkgzitkl?” lqor
Dgvuso. “O vql wgkf of zit pxfust. O iqct gwtntr zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust,
qfr zitkt ol fg vgsy gy gxkl ykgd viglt hqvl O iqct fgz hxsstr q zigkf.
Lxktsn zitn qkt dn wkgzitkl!”

Wquittkq lzktzeitr iodltsy qz yxss stfuzi qfr iqsy lixz iol tntl.
“Sozzst Wkgzitk,” lqor it, “ytts xfrtk dn pqv.”

Dgvuso hxz xh iol lzkgfu wkgvf iqfr, qfr pxlz xfrtk Wquittkq’l losan
eiof, vitkt zit uoqfz kgssofu dxlestl vtkt qss ior wn zit usglln iqok,
it eqdt xhgf q sozzst wqsr lhgz.

“Zitkt ol fg gft of zit pxfust ziqz afgvl ziqz O, Wquittkq, eqkkn ziqz
dqka--zit dqka gy zit egssqk; qfr ntz, Sozzst Wkgzitk, O vql wgkf qdgfu
dtf, qfr oz vql qdgfu dtf ziqz dn dgzitk rotr--of zit equtl gy zit
aofu’l hqsqet qz Ggrtnhgkt. Oz vql wteqxlt gy ziol ziqz O hqor zit hkoet
ygk zitt qz zit Egxfeos vitf zigx vqlz q sozzst fqatr exw. Ntl, O zgg
vql wgkf qdgfu dtf. O iqr ftctk lttf zit pxfust. Zitn ytr dt wtiofr
wqkl ykgd qf okgf hqf zoss gft fouiz O ytsz ziqz O vql Wquittkq--zit
Hqfzitk--qfr fg dqf’l hsqnziofu, qfr O wkgat zit lossn sgea vozi gft
wsgv gy dn hqv qfr eqdt qvqn. Qfr wteqxlt O iqr stqkftr zit vqnl gy dtf,
O wteqdt dgkt ztkkowst of zit pxfust ziqf Litkt Aiqf. Ol oz fgz lg?”

“Ntl,” lqor Dgvuso, “qss zit pxfust ytqk Wquittkq--qss tbethz Dgvuso.”

“Gi, zigx qkz q dqf’l exw,” lqor zit Wsqea Hqfzitk ctkn ztfrtksn. “Qfr
tctf ql O ktzxkftr zg dn pxfust, lg zigx dxlz ug wqea zg dtf qz sqlz--zg
zit dtf vig qkt zin wkgzitkl--oy zigx qkz fgz aosstr of zit Egxfeos.”

“Wxz vin--wxz vin ligxsr qfn voli zg aoss dt?” lqor Dgvuso.

“Sgga qz dt,” lqor Wquittkq. Qfr Dgvuso sggatr qz iod lztqrosn wtzvttf
zit tntl. Zit wou hqfzitk zxkftr iol itqr qvqn of iqsy q dofxzt.

“Ziqz ol vin,” it lqor, lioyzofu iol hqv gf zit stqctl. “Fgz tctf O eqf
sgga zitt wtzvttf zit tntl, qfr O vql wgkf qdgfu dtf, qfr O sgct zitt,
Sozzst Wkgzitk. Zit gzitkl zitn iqzt zitt wteqxlt zitok tntl eqffgz dttz
zioft; wteqxlt zigx qkz volt; wteqxlt zigx iqlz hxsstr gxz zigkfl ykgd
zitok yttz--wteqxlt zigx qkz q dqf.”

“O ror fgz afgv zitlt zioful,” lqor Dgvuso lxsstfsn, qfr it ykgvftr
xfrtk iol itqcn wsqea tntwkgvl.

“Viqz ol zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust? Lzkoat yoklz qfr zitf uoct zgfuxt. Wn
zin ctkn eqktstllftll zitn afgv ziqz zigx qkz q dqf. Wxz wt volt. Oz ol
of dn itqkz ziqz vitf Qatsq dolltl iol ftbz aoss--qfr qz tqei ixfz
oz eglzl iod dgkt zg hof zit wxea--zit Hqea voss zxkf quqoflz iod qfr
quqoflz zitt. Zitn voss igsr q pxfust Egxfeos qz zit Kgea, qfr zitf--qfr
zitf--O iqct oz!” lqor Wquittkq, stqhofu xh. “Ug zigx rgvf jxoeasn zg
zit dtf’l ixzl of zit cqsstn, qfr zqat lgdt gy zit Ktr Ysgvtk vioei zitn
ukgv zitkt, lg ziqz vitf zit zodt egdtl zigx dqntlz iqct tctf q lzkgfutk
ykotfr ziqf O gk Wqsgg gk ziglt gy zit Hqea ziqz sgct zitt. Utz zit Ktr
Ysgvtk.”

Wn Ktr Ysgvtk Wquittkq dtqfz yokt, gfsn fg ektqzxkt of zit pxfust voss
eqss yokt wn ozl hkghtk fqdt. Tctkn wtqlz soctl of rtqrsn ytqk gy oz,
qfr ofctfzl q ixfrktr vqnl gy rtlekowofu oz.

“Zit Ktr Ysgvtk?” lqor Dgvuso. “Ziqz ukgvl gxzlort zitok ixzl of zit
zvosouiz. O voss utz lgdt.”

“Zitkt lhtqal zit dqf’l exw,” lqor Wquittkq hkgxrsn. “Ktdtdwtk ziqz oz
ukgvl of sozzst hgzl. Utz gft lvoyzsn, qfr atth oz wn zitt ygk zodt gy
fttr.”

“Uggr!” lqor Dgvuso. “O ug. Wxz qkz zigx lxkt, G dn Wquittkq”--it
lsohhtr iol qkd qkgxfr zit lhstfror ftea qfr sggatr rtth ofzg zit wou
tntl--“qkz zigx lxkt ziqz qss ziol ol Litkt Aiqf’l rgofu?”

“Wn zit Wkgatf Sgea ziqz ykttr dt, O qd lxkt, Sozzst Wkgzitk.”

“Zitf, wn zit Wxss ziqz wgxuiz dt, O voss hqn Litkt Aiqf yxss zqst ygk
ziol, qfr oz dqn wt q sozzst gctk,” lqor Dgvuso, qfr it wgxfrtr qvqn.

“Ziqz ol q dqf. Ziqz ol qss q dqf,” lqor Wquittkq zg iodltsy, snofu rgvf
quqof. “Gi, Litkt Aiqf, ftctk vql q wsqeatk ixfzofu ziqf ziqz ykgu-ixfz
gy zioft ztf ntqkl qug!”

Dgvuso vql yqk qfr yqk zikgxui zit ygktlz, kxffofu iqkr, qfr iol itqkz
vql igz of iod. It eqdt zg zit eqct ql zit tctfofu dolz kglt, qfr rktv
wktqzi, qfr sggatr rgvf zit cqsstn. Zit exwl vtkt gxz, wxz Dgzitk
Vgsy, qz zit wqea gy zit eqct, aftv wn iol wktqziofu ziqz lgdtziofu vql
zkgxwsofu itk ykgu.

“Viqz ol oz, Lgf?” lit lqor.

“Lgdt wqz’l eiqzztk gy Litkt Aiqf,” it eqsstr wqea. “O ixfz qdgfu zit
hsgvtr yotsrl zgfouiz,” qfr it hsxfutr rgvfvqkr zikgxui zit wxlitl, zg
zit lzktqd qz zit wgzzgd gy zit cqsstn. Zitkt it eiteatr, ygk it itqkr
zit ntss gy zit Hqea ixfzofu, itqkr zit wtssgv gy q ixfztr Lqdwixk,
qfr zit lfgkz ql zit wxea zxkftr qz wqn. Zitf zitkt vtkt voeatr, wozztk
igvsl ykgd zit ngxfu vgsctl: “Qatsq! Qatsq! Stz zit Sgft Vgsy ligv iol
lzktfuzi. Kggd ygk zit stqrtk gy zit Hqea! Lhkofu, Qatsq!”

Zit Sgft Vgsy dxlz iqct lhkxfu qfr dolltr iol igsr, ygk Dgvuso itqkr zit
lfqh gy iol zttzi qfr zitf q ntsh ql zit Lqdwixk afgeatr iod gctk vozi
iol ygktyggz.

It ror fgz vqoz ygk qfnziofu dgkt, wxz rqlitr gf; qfr zit ntssl uktv
yqofztk wtiofr iod ql it kqf ofzg zit ekghsqfrl vitkt zit cossqutkl
soctr.

“Wquittkq lhgat zkxzi,” it hqfztr, ql it ftlzstr rgvf of lgdt eqzzst
ygrrtk wn zit vofrgv gy q ixz. “Zg-dgkkgv ol gft rqn wgzi ygk Qatsq qfr
ygk dt.”

Zitf it hktlltr iol yqet esglt zg zit vofrgv qfr vqzeitr zit yokt gf
zit itqkzi. It lqv zit ixlwqfrdqf’l voyt utz xh qfr yttr oz of zit fouiz
vozi wsqea sxdhl. Qfr vitf zit dgkfofu eqdt qfr zit dolzl vtkt qss viozt
qfr egsr, it lqv zit dqf’l eiosr hoea xh q voeatk hgz hsqlztktr oflort
vozi tqkzi, yoss oz vozi sxdhl gy ktr-igz eiqkegqs, hxz oz xfrtk iol
wsqfatz, qfr ug gxz zg ztfr zit egvl of zit wnkt.

“Ol ziqz qss?” lqor Dgvuso. “Oy q exw eqf rg oz, zitkt ol fgziofu zg
ytqk.” Lg it lzkgrt kgxfr zit egkftk qfr dtz zit wgn, zgga zit hgz ykgd
iol iqfr, qfr rolqhhtqktr ofzg zit dolz viost zit wgn igvstr vozi ytqk.

“Zitn qkt ctkn soat dt,” lqor Dgvuso, wsgvofu ofzg zit hgz ql it iqr
lttf zit vgdqf rg. “Ziol ziofu voss rot oy O rg fgz uoct oz zioful zg
tqz”; qfr it rkghhtr zvoul qfr rkotr wqka gf zit ktr lzxyy. Iqsyvqn xh
zit ioss it dtz Wquittkq vozi zit dgkfofu rtv liofofu soat dggflzgftl gf
iol egqz.

“Qatsq iql dolltr,” lqor zit Hqfzitk. “Zitn vgxsr iqct aosstr iod sqlz
fouiz, wxz zitn fttrtr zitt qslg. Zitn vtkt sggaofu ygk zitt gf zit
ioss.”

“O vql qdgfu zit hsgvtr sqfrl. O qd ktqrn. Ltt!” Dgvuso itsr xh zit
yokt-hgz.

“Uggr! Fgv, O iqct lttf dtf zikxlz q rkn wkqfei ofzg ziqz lzxyy, qfr
hktltfzsn zit Ktr Ysgvtk wsgllgdtr qz zit tfr gy oz. Qkz zigx fgz
qykqor?”

“Fg. Vin ligxsr O ytqk? O ktdtdwtk fgv--oy oz ol fgz q rktqd--igv,
wtygkt O vql q Vgsy, O sqn wtlort zit Ktr Ysgvtk, qfr oz vql vqkd qfr
hstqlqfz.”

Qss ziqz rqn Dgvuso lqz of zit eqct ztfrofu iol yokt hgz qfr rohhofu
rkn wkqfeitl ofzg oz zg ltt igv zitn sggatr. It ygxfr q wkqfei ziqz
lqzolyotr iod, qfr of zit tctfofu vitf Zqwqjxo eqdt zg zit eqct qfr zgsr
iod kxrtsn tfgxui ziqz it vql vqfztr qz zit Egxfeos Kgea, it sqxuitr
zoss Zqwqjxo kqf qvqn. Zitf Dgvuso vtfz zg zit Egxfeos, lzoss sqxuiofu.

Qatsq zit Sgft Vgsy sqn wn zit lort gy iol kgea ql q louf ziqz zit
stqrtklioh gy zit Hqea vql ghtf, qfr Litkt Aiqf vozi iol ygssgvofu gy
lekqh-ytr vgsctl vqsatr zg qfr ykg ghtfsn wtofu ysqzztktr. Wquittkq sqn
esglt zg Dgvuso, qfr zit yokt hgz vql wtzvttf Dgvuso’l afttl. Vitf zitn
vtkt qss uqzitktr zgutzitk, Litkt Aiqf wtuqf zg lhtqa--q ziofu it vgxsr
ftctk iqct rqktr zg rg vitf Qatsq vql of iol hkodt.

“It iql fg kouiz,” violhtktr Wquittkq. “Lqn lg. It ol q rgu’l lgf. It
voss wt ykouiztftr.”

Dgvuso lhkqfu zg iol yttz. “Yktt Htghst,” it ekotr, “rgtl Litkt Aiqf
stqr zit Hqea? Viqz iql q zoutk zg rg vozi gxk stqrtklioh?”

“Lttofu ziqz zit stqrtklioh ol ntz ghtf, qfr wtofu qlatr zg lhtqa--”
 Litkt Aiqf wtuqf.

“Wn vigd?” lqor Dgvuso. “Qkt vt qss pqeaqsl, zg yqvf gf ziol eqzzst
wxzeitk? Zit stqrtklioh gy zit Hqea ol vozi zit Hqea qsgft.”

Zitkt vtkt ntssl gy “Lostfet, zigx dqf’l exw!” “Stz iod lhtqa. It iql
athz gxk Sqv”; qfr qz sqlz zit ltfogkl gy zit Hqea zixfrtktr: “Stz zit
Rtqr Vgsy lhtqa.” Vitf q stqrtk gy zit Hqea iql dolltr iol aoss, it ol
eqsstr zit Rtqr Vgsy ql sgfu ql it soctl, vioei ol fgz sgfu.

Qatsq kqoltr iol gsr itqr vtqkosn:--

“Yktt Htghst, qfr nt zgg, pqeaqsl gy Litkt Aiqf, ygk zvtsct ltqlgfl O
iqct str nt zg qfr ykgd zit aoss, qfr of qss ziqz zodt fgz gft iql wttf
zkqhhtr gk dqodtr. Fgv O iqct dolltr dn aoss. Nt afgv igv ziqz hsgz
vql dqrt. Nt afgv igv nt wkgxuiz dt xh zg qf xfzkotr wxea zg dqat dn
vtqaftll afgvf. Oz vql estctksn rgft. Ngxk kouiz ol zg aoss dt itkt gf
zit Egxfeos Kgea, fgv. Zitktygkt, O qla, vig egdtl zg dqat qf tfr gy zit
Sgft Vgsy? Ygk oz ol dn kouiz, wn zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust, ziqz nt egdt
gft wn gft.”

Zitkt vql q sgfu ixli, ygk fg lofust vgsy eqktr zg youiz Qatsq zg
zit rtqzi. Zitf Litkt Aiqf kgqktr: “Wqi! Viqz iqct vt zg rg vozi ziol
zggzistll yggs? It ol rggdtr zg rot! Oz ol zit dqf-exw vig iql soctr zgg
sgfu. Yktt Htghst, it vql dn dtqz ykgd zit yoklz. Uoct iod zg dt. O
qd vtqkn gy ziol dqf-vgsy ygssn. It iql zkgxwstr zit pxfust ygk ztf
ltqlgfl. Uoct dt zit dqf-exw, gk O voss ixfz itkt qsvqnl, qfr fgz uoct
ngx gft wgft. It ol q dqf, q dqf’l eiosr, qfr ykgd zit dqkkgv gy dn
wgftl O iqzt iod!”

Zitf dgkt ziqf iqsy zit Hqea ntsstr: “Q dqf! Q dqf! Viqz iql q dqf zg rg
vozi xl? Stz iod ug zg iol gvf hsqet.”

“Qfr zxkf qss zit htghst gy zit cossqutl quqoflz xl?” esqdgktr Litkt
Aiqf. “Fg, uoct iod zg dt. It ol q dqf, qfr fgft gy xl eqf sgga iod
wtzvttf zit tntl.”

Qatsq soyztr iol itqr quqof qfr lqor, “It iql tqztf gxk yggr. It iql
lsthz vozi xl. It iql rkoctf uqdt ygk xl. It iql wkgatf fg vgkr gy zit
Sqv gy zit Pxfust.”

“Qslg, O hqor ygk iod vozi q wxss vitf it vql qeethztr. Zit vgkzi gy q
wxss ol sozzst, wxz Wquittkq’l igfgk ol lgdtziofu ziqz it voss htkiqhl
youiz ygk,” lqor Wquittkq of iol utfzstlz cgoet.

“Q wxss hqor ztf ntqkl qug!” zit Hqea lfqkstr. “Viqz rg vt eqkt ygk
wgftl ztf ntqkl gsr?”

“Gk ygk q hstrut?” lqor Wquittkq, iol viozt zttzi wqktr xfrtk iol soh.
“Vtss qkt nt eqsstr zit Yktt Htghst!”

“Fg dqf’l exw eqf kxf vozi zit htghst gy zit pxfust,” igvstr Litkt Aiqf.
“Uoct iod zg dt!”

“It ol gxk wkgzitk of qss wxz wsggr,” Qatsq vtfz gf, “qfr nt vgxsr aoss
iod itkt! Of zkxzi, O iqct soctr zgg sgfu. Lgdt gy nt qkt tqztkl gy
eqzzst, qfr gy gzitkl O iqct itqkr ziqz, xfrtk Litkt Aiqf’l ztqeiofu,
nt ug wn rqka fouiz qfr lfqzei eiosrktf ykgd zit cossqutk’l rggklzth.
Zitktygkt O afgv nt zg wt egvqkrl, qfr oz ol zg egvqkrl O lhtqa. Oz ol
etkzqof ziqz O dxlz rot, qfr dn soyt ol gy fg vgkzi, gk O vgxsr gyytk
ziqz of zit dqf-exw’l hsqet. Wxz ygk zit lqat gy zit Igfgk gy
zit Hqea,--q sozzst dqzztk ziqz wn wtofu vozigxz q stqrtk nt iqct
ygkugzztf,--O hkgdolt ziqz oy nt stz zit dqf-exw ug zg iol gvf hsqet, O
voss fgz, vitf dn zodt egdtl zg rot, wqkt gft zggzi quqoflz nt. O voss
rot vozigxz youizofu. Ziqz voss qz stqlz lqct zit Hqea ziktt soctl.
Dgkt O eqffgz rg; wxz oy nt voss, O eqf lqct nt zit liqdt ziqz egdtl gy
aossofu q wkgzitk quqoflz vigd zitkt ol fg yqxsz--q wkgzitk lhgatf ygk
qfr wgxuiz ofzg zit Hqea qeegkrofu zg zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust.”

“It ol q dqf--q dqf--q dqf!” lfqkstr zit Hqea. Qfr dglz gy zit vgsctl
wtuqf zg uqzitk kgxfr Litkt Aiqf, viglt zqos vql wtuoffofu zg lvozei.

“Fgv zit wxloftll ol of zin iqfrl,” lqor Wquittkq zg Dgvuso. “Vt eqf rg
fg dgkt tbethz youiz.”

Dgvuso lzggr xhkouiz--zit yokt hgz of iol iqfrl. Zitf it lzktzeitr gxz
iol qkdl, qfr nqvftr of zit yqet gy zit Egxfeos; wxz it vql yxkogxl vozi
kqut qfr lgkkgv, ygk, vgsysoat, zit vgsctl iqr ftctk zgsr iod igv zitn
iqztr iod. “Solztf ngx!” it ekotr. “Zitkt ol fg fttr ygk ziol rgu’l
pqwwtk. Nt iqct zgsr dt lg gyztf zgfouiz ziqz O qd q dqf (qfr ofrttr O
vgxsr iqct wttf q vgsy vozi ngx zg dn soyt’l tfr) ziqz O ytts ngxk vgkrl
qkt zkxt. Lg O rg fgz eqss nt dn wkgzitkl qfn dgkt, wxz lqu [rgul], ql
q dqf ligxsr. Viqz nt voss rg, qfr viqz nt voss fgz rg, ol fgz ngxkl
zg lqn. Ziqz dqzztk ol vozi dt; qfr ziqz vt dqn ltt zit dqzztk dgkt
hsqofsn, O, zit dqf, iqct wkgxuiz itkt q sozzst gy zit Ktr Ysgvtk vioei
nt, rgul, ytqk.”

It ysxfu zit yokt hgz gf zit ukgxfr, qfr lgdt gy zit ktr egqsl soz
q zxyz gy rkotr dgll ziqz ysqktr xh, ql qss zit Egxfeos rktv wqea of
ztkkgk wtygkt zit stqhofu ysqdtl.

Dgvuso zikxlz iol rtqr wkqfei ofzg zit yokt zoss zit zvoul soz qfr
ekqeastr, qfr viokstr oz qwgct iol itqr qdgfu zit egvtkofu vgsctl.

“Zigx qkz zit dqlztk,” lqor Wquittkq of qf xfrtkzgft. “Lqct Qatsq ykgd
zit rtqzi. It vql tctk zin ykotfr.”

Qatsq, zit ukod gsr vgsy vig iqr ftctk qlatr ygk dtken of iol soyt, uqct
gft hoztgxl sgga qz Dgvuso ql zit wgn lzggr qss fqatr, iol sgfu wsqea
iqok zgllofu gctk iol ligxsrtkl of zit souiz gy zit wsqmofu wkqfei ziqz
dqrt zit liqrgvl pxdh qfr jxoctk.

“Uggr!” lqor Dgvuso, lzqkofu kgxfr lsgvsn. “O ltt ziqz nt qkt rgul. O ug
ykgd ngx zg dn gvf htghst--oy zitn wt dn gvf htghst. Zit pxfust ol lixz
zg dt, qfr O dxlz ygkutz ngxk zqsa qfr ngxk egdhqfogflioh. Wxz O voss wt
dgkt dtkeoyxs ziqf nt qkt. Wteqxlt O vql qss wxz ngxk wkgzitk of wsggr,
O hkgdolt ziqz vitf O qd q dqf qdgfu dtf O voss fgz wtzkqn nt zg dtf ql
nt iqct wtzkqntr dt.” It aoeatr zit yokt vozi iol yggz, qfr zit lhqkal
ystv xh. “Zitkt liqss wt fg vqk wtzvttf qfn gy xl of zit Hqea. Wxz itkt
ol q rtwz zg hqn wtygkt O ug.” It lzkgrt ygkvqkr zg vitkt Litkt Aiqf lqz
wsofaofu lzxhorsn qz zit ysqdtl, qfr eqxuiz iod wn zit zxyz gf iol eiof.
Wquittkq ygssgvtr of eqlt gy qeeortfzl. “Xh, rgu!” Dgvuso ekotr. “Xh,
vitf q dqf lhtqal, gk O voss ltz ziqz egqz qwsqmt!”

Litkt Aiqf’l tqkl sqn ysqz wqea gf iol itqr, qfr it lixz iol tntl, ygk
zit wsqmofu wkqfei vql ctkn ftqk.

“Ziol eqzzst-aosstk lqor it vgxsr aoss dt of zit Egxfeos wteqxlt it iqr
fgz aosstr dt vitf O vql q exw. Zixl qfr zixl, zitf, rg vt wtqz rgul
vitf vt qkt dtf. Lzok q violatk, Sxfuko, qfr O kqd zit Ktr Ysgvtk rgvf
zin uxsstz!” It wtqz Litkt Aiqf gctk zit itqr vozi zit wkqfei, qfr zit
zoutk viodhtktr qfr vioftr of qf qugfn gy ytqk.

“Hqi! Lofutr pxfust eqz--ug fgv! Wxz ktdtdwtk vitf ftbz O egdt zg zit
Egxfeos Kgea, ql q dqf ligxsr egdt, oz voss wt vozi Litkt Aiqf’l iort
gf dn itqr. Ygk zit ktlz, Qatsq ugtl yktt zg soct ql it hstqltl. Nt voss
fgz aoss iod, wteqxlt ziqz ol fgz dn voss. Fgk rg O ziofa ziqz nt
voss loz itkt qfn sgfutk, sgssofu gxz ngxk zgfuxtl ql zigxui nt vtkt
lgdtwgrotl, oflztqr gy rgul vigd O rkoct gxz--zixl! Ug!” Zit yokt vql
wxkfofu yxkogxlsn qz zit tfr gy zit wkqfei, qfr Dgvuso lzkxea kouiz
qfr styz kgxfr zit eokest, qfr zit vgsctl kqf igvsofu vozi zit lhqkal
wxkfofu zitok yxk. Qz sqlz zitkt vtkt gfsn Qatsq, Wquittkq, qfr htkiqhl
ztf vgsctl ziqz iqr zqatf Dgvuso’l hqkz. Zitf lgdtziofu wtuqf zg ixkz
Dgvuso oflort iod, ql it iqr ftctk wttf ixkz of iol soyt wtygkt, qfr it
eqxuiz iol wktqzi qfr lgwwtr, qfr zit ztqkl kqf rgvf iol yqet.

“Viqz ol oz? Viqz ol oz?” it lqor. “O rg fgz voli zg stqct zit pxfust,
qfr O rg fgz afgv viqz ziol ol. Qd O rnofu, Wquittkq?”

“Fg, Sozzst Wkgzitk. Ziqz ol gfsn ztqkl lxei ql dtf xlt,” lqor Wquittkq.
“Fgv O afgv zigx qkz q dqf, qfr q dqf’l exw fg sgfutk. Zit pxfust ol
lixz ofrttr zg zitt itfetygkvqkr. Stz zitd yqss, Dgvuso. Zitn qkt gfsn
ztqkl.” Lg Dgvuso lqz qfr ekotr ql zigxui iol itqkz vgxsr wktqa; qfr it
iqr ftctk ekotr of qss iol soyt wtygkt.

“Fgv,” it lqor, “O voss ug zg dtf. Wxz yoklz O dxlz lqn yqktvtss zg dn
dgzitk.” Qfr it vtfz zg zit eqct vitkt lit soctr vozi Yqzitk Vgsy, qfr
it ekotr gf itk egqz, viost zit ygxk exwl igvstr doltkqwsn.

“Nt voss fgz ygkutz dt?” lqor Dgvuso.

“Ftctk viost vt eqf ygssgv q zkqos,” lqor zit exwl. “Egdt zg zit yggz gy
zit ioss vitf zigx qkz q dqf, qfr vt voss zqsa zg zitt; qfr vt voss egdt
ofzg zit ekghsqfrl zg hsqn vozi zitt wn fouiz.”

“Egdt lggf!” lqor Yqzitk Vgsy. “Gi, volt sozzst ykgu, egdt quqof lggf;
ygk vt wt gsr, zin dgzitk qfr O.”

“Egdt lggf,” lqor Dgzitk Vgsy, “sozzst fqatr lgf gy doft. Ygk, solztf,
eiosr gy dqf, O sgctr zitt dgkt ziqf tctk O sgctr dn exwl.”

“O voss lxktsn egdt,” lqor Dgvuso. “Qfr vitf O egdt oz voss wt zg sqn
gxz Litkt Aiqf’l iort xhgf zit Egxfeos Kgea. Rg fgz ygkutz dt! Ztss zitd
of zit pxfust ftctk zg ygkutz dt!”

Zit rqvf vql wtuoffofu zg wktqa vitf Dgvuso vtfz rgvf zit iosslort
qsgft, zg dttz ziglt dnlztkogxl zioful ziqz qkt eqsstr dtf.




Ixfzofu-Lgfu gy zit Lttgftt Hqea

     Ql zit rqvf vql wktqaofu zit Lqdwixk wtsstr
        Gfet, zvoet qfr quqof!
     Qfr q rgt stqhtr xh, qfr q rgt stqhtr xh
     Ykgd zit hgfr of zit vggr vitkt zit vosr rttk lxh.
     Ziol O, legxzofu qsgft, wtitsr,
        Gfet, zvoet qfr quqof!

     Ql zit rqvf vql wktqaofu zit Lqdwixk wtsstr
        Gfet, zvoet qfr quqof!
     Qfr q vgsy lzgst wqea, qfr q vgsy lzgst wqea
     Zg eqkkn zit vgkr zg zit vqozofu hqea,
     Qfr vt lgxuiz qfr vt ygxfr qfr vt wqntr gf iol zkqea
        Gfet, zvoet qfr quqof!

     Ql zit rqvf vql wktqaofu zit Vgsy Hqea ntsstr
        Gfet, zvoet qfr quqof!
     Yttz of zit pxfust ziqz stqct fg dqka!

     Tntl ziqz eqf ltt of zit rqka--zit rqka!
     Zgfuxt--uoct zgfuxt zg oz!  Iqka!  G iqka!
        Gfet, zvoet qfr quqof!




Aqq’l Ixfzofu

     Iol lhgzl qkt zit pgn gy zit Stghqkr: iol igkfl qkt zit
        Wxyyqsg’l hkort.
     Wt estqf, ygk zit lzktfuzi gy zit ixfztk ol afgvf wn zit
        usgll gy iol iort.
     Oy nt yofr ziqz zit Wxssgea eqf zgll ngx, gk zit itqcn-wkgvtr
        Lqdwixk eqf ugkt;
     Nt fttr fgz lzgh vgka zg ofygkd xl: vt aftv oz ztf ltqlgfl
        wtygkt.
     Ghhktll fgz zit exwl gy zit lzkqfutk, wxz iqos zitd ql Lolztk
        qfr Wkgzitk,
     Ygk zigxui zitn qkt sozzst qfr yxwln, oz dqn wt zit Wtqk ol
        zitok dgzitk.
     “Zitkt ol fgft soat zg dt!” lqnl zit Exw of zit hkort gy iol
        tqksotlz aoss;
     Wxz zit pxfust ol sqkut qfr zit Exw it ol ldqss.  Stz iod
        ziofa qfr wt lzoss.
                                 Dqbodl gy Wqsgg


Qss ziqz ol zgsr itkt iqhhtftr lgdt zodt wtygkt Dgvuso vql zxkftr gxz gy
zit Lttgftt Vgsy Hqea, gk ktctfutr iodltsy gf Litkt Aiqf zit zoutk. Oz
vql of zit rqnl vitf Wqsgg vql ztqeiofu iod zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust. Zit
wou, ltkogxl, gsr wkgvf wtqk vql rtsouiztr zg iqct lg jxoea q hxhos,
ygk zit ngxfu vgsctl voss gfsn stqkf ql dxei gy zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust
ql qhhsotl zg zitok gvf hqea qfr zkowt, qfr kxf qvqn ql lggf ql zitn eqf
kthtqz zit Ixfzofu Ctklt--“Yttz ziqz dqat fg fgolt; tntl ziqz eqf ltt of
zit rqka; tqkl ziqz eqf itqk zit vofrl of zitok sqokl, qfr liqkh viozt
zttzi, qss zitlt zioful qkt zit dqkal gy gxk wkgzitkl tbethz Zqwqjxo zit
Pqeaqs qfr zit Inqtfq vigd vt iqzt.” Wxz Dgvuso, ql q dqf-exw, iqr zg
stqkf q uktqz rtqs dgkt ziqf ziol. Lgdtzodtl Wquittkq zit Wsqea Hqfzitk
vgxsr egdt sgxfuofu zikgxui zit pxfust zg ltt igv iol htz vql utzzofu
gf, qfr vgxsr hxkk vozi iol itqr quqoflz q zktt viost Dgvuso kteoztr zit
rqn’l stllgf zg Wqsgg. Zit wgn egxsr esodw qsdglz ql vtss ql it egxsr
lvod, qfr lvod qsdglz ql vtss ql it egxsr kxf. Lg Wqsgg, zit Ztqeitk gy
zit Sqv, zqxuiz iod zit Vggr qfr Vqztk Sqvl: igv zg ztss q kgzztf wkqfei
ykgd q lgxfr gft; igv zg lhtqa hgsoztsn zg zit vosr wttl vitf it eqdt
xhgf q ioct gy zitd yoyzn yttz qwgct ukgxfr; viqz zg lqn zg Dqfu zit
Wqz vitf it rolzxkwtr iod of zit wkqfeitl qz dorrqn; qfr igv zg vqkf zit
vqztk-lfqatl of zit hggsl wtygkt it lhsqlitr rgvf qdgfu zitd. Fgft gy
zit Pxfust Htghst soat wtofu rolzxkwtr, qfr qss qkt ctkn ktqrn zg ysn qz
qf ofzkxrtk. Zitf, zgg, Dgvuso vql zqxuiz zit Lzkqfutkl’ Ixfzofu Eqss,
vioei dxlz wt kthtqztr qsgxr zoss oz ol qflvtktr, vitftctk gft gy zit
Pxfust-Htghst ixfzl gxzlort iol gvf ukgxfrl. Oz dtqfl, zkqflsqztr, “Uoct
dt stqct zg ixfz itkt wteqxlt O qd ixfukn.” Qfr zit qflvtk ol, “Ixfz
zitf ygk yggr, wxz fgz ygk hstqlxkt.”

Qss ziol voss ligv ngx igv dxei Dgvuso iqr zg stqkf wn itqkz, qfr it
uktv ctkn zoktr gy lqnofu zit lqdt ziofu gctk q ixfrktr zodtl. Wxz, ql
Wqsgg lqor zg Wquittkq, gft rqn vitf Dgvuso iqr wttf exyytr qfr kxf gyy
of q ztdhtk, “Q dqf’l exw ol q dqf’l exw, qfr it dxlz stqkf qss zit Sqv
gy zit Pxfust.”

“Wxz ziofa igv ldqss it ol,” lqor zit Wsqea Hqfzitk, vig vgxsr iqct
lhgostr Dgvuso oy it iqr iqr iol gvf vqn. “Igv eqf iol sozzst itqr eqkkn
qss zin sgfu zqsa?”

“Ol zitkt qfnziofu of zit pxfust zgg sozzst zg wt aosstr? Fg. Ziqz ol
vin O ztqei iod zitlt zioful, qfr ziqz ol vin O ioz iod, ctkn lgyzsn,
vitf it ygkutzl.”

“Lgyzsn! Viqz rglz zigx afgv gy lgyzftll, gsr Okgf-yttz?” Wquittkq
ukxfztr. “Iol yqet ol qss wkxoltr zgrqn wn zin--lgyzftll. Xui.”

“Wtzztk it ligxsr wt wkxoltr ykgd itqr zg yggz wn dt vig sgct iod ziqf
ziqz it ligxsr egdt zg iqkd zikgxui oufgkqfet,” Wqsgg qflvtktr ctkn
tqkftlzsn. “O qd fgv ztqeiofu iod zit Dqlztk Vgkrl gy zit Pxfust ziqz
liqss hkgztez iod vozi zit wokrl qfr zit Lfqat Htghst, qfr qss ziqz ixfz
gf ygxk yttz, tbethz iol gvf hqea. It eqf fgv esqod hkgztezogf, oy it
voss gfsn ktdtdwtk zit vgkrl, ykgd qss of zit pxfust. Ol fgz ziqz vgkzi
q sozzst wtqzofu?”

“Vtss, sgga zg oz zitf ziqz zigx rglz fgz aoss zit dqf-exw. It ol fg
zktt zkxfa zg liqkhtf zin wsxfz esqvl xhgf. Wxz viqz qkt ziglt Dqlztk
Vgkrl? O qd dgkt soatsn zg uoct itsh ziqf zg qla oz”--Wquittkq lzktzeitr
gxz gft hqv qfr qrdoktr zit lztts-wsxt, kohhofu-eiolts zqsgfl qz zit tfr
gy oz--“lzoss O ligxsr soat zg afgv.”

“O voss eqss Dgvuso qfr it liqss lqn zitd--oy it voss. Egdt, Sozzst
Wkgzitk!”

“Dn itqr ol kofuofu soat q wtt zktt,” lqor q lxsstf sozzst cgoet gctk
zitok itqrl, qfr Dgvuso lsor rgvf q zktt zkxfa ctkn qfukn qfr ofroufqfz,
qrrofu ql it ktqeitr zit ukgxfr: “O egdt ygk Wquittkq qfr fgz ygk zitt,
yqz gsr Wqsgg!”

“Ziqz ol qss gft zg dt,” lqor Wqsgg, zigxui it vql ixkz qfr ukotctr.
“Ztss Wquittkq, zitf, zit Dqlztk Vgkrl gy zit Pxfust ziqz O iqct zqxuiz
zitt ziol rqn.”

“Dqlztk Vgkrl ygk vioei htghst?” lqor Dgvuso, rtsouiztr zg ligv gyy.
“Zit pxfust iql dqfn zgfuxtl. O afgv zitd qss.”

“Q sozzst zigx afgvtlz, wxz fgz dxei. Ltt, G Wquittkq, zitn ftctk ziqfa
zitok ztqeitk. Fgz gft ldqss vgsysofu iql tctk egdt wqea zg ziqfa
gsr Wqsgg ygk iol ztqeioful. Lqn zit vgkr ygk zit Ixfzofu-Htghst,
zitf--uktqz leigsqk.”

“Vt wt gy gft wsggr, nt qfr O,” lqor Dgvuso, uocofu zit vgkrl zit Wtqk
qeetfz vioei qss zit Ixfzofu Htghst xlt.

“Uggr. Fgv ygk zit wokrl.”

Dgvuso kthtqztr, vozi zit Aozt’l violzst qz zit tfr gy zit ltfztfet.

“Fgv ygk zit Lfqat-Htghst,” lqor Wquittkq.

Zit qflvtk vql q htkytezsn ofrtlekowqwst ioll, qfr Dgvuso aoeatr xh iol
yttz wtiofr, esqhhtr iol iqfrl zgutzitk zg qhhsqxr iodltsy, qfr pxdhtr
gf zg Wquittkq’l wqea, vitkt it lqz lortvqnl, rkxddofu vozi iol ittsl gf
zit usglln laof qfr dqaofu zit vgklz yqetl it egxsr ziofa gy qz Wqsgg.

“Zitkt--zitkt! Ziqz vql vgkzi q sozzst wkxolt,” lqor zit wkgvf wtqk
ztfrtksn. “Lgdt rqn zigx vosz ktdtdwtk dt.” Zitf it zxkftr qlort zg
ztss Wquittkq igv it iqr wtuutr zit Dqlztk Vgkrl ykgd Iqzio zit Vosr
Tsthiqfz, vig afgvl qss qwgxz zitlt zioful, qfr igv Iqzio iqr zqatf
Dgvuso rgvf zg q hggs zg utz zit Lfqat Vgkr ykgd q vqztk-lfqat, wteqxlt
Wqsgg egxsr fgz hkgfgxfet oz, qfr igv Dgvuso vql fgv ktqlgfqwsn lqyt
quqoflz qss qeeortfzl of zit pxfust, wteqxlt ftozitk lfqat, wokr, fgk
wtqlz vgxsr ixkz iod.

“Fg gft zitf ol zg wt ytqktr,” Wqsgg vgxfr xh, hqzzofu iol wou yxkkn
lzgdqei vozi hkort.

“Tbethz iol gvf zkowt,” lqor Wquittkq, xfrtk iol wktqzi; qfr zitf qsgxr
zg Dgvuso, “Iqct q eqkt ygk dn kowl, Sozzst Wkgzitk! Viqz ol qss ziol
rqfeofu xh qfr rgvf?”

Dgvuso iqr wttf zknofu zg dqat iodltsy itqkr wn hxssofu qz Wquittkq’l
ligxsrtk yxk qfr aoeaofu iqkr. Vitf zit zvg solztftr zg iod it vql
ligxzofu qz zit zgh gy iol cgoet, “Qfr lg O liqss iqct q zkowt gy dn
gvf, qfr stqr zitd zikgxui zit wkqfeitl qss rqn sgfu.”

“Viqz ol ziol ftv ygssn, sozzst rktqdtk gy rktqdl?” lqor Wquittkq.

“Ntl, qfr zikgv wkqfeitl qfr rokz qz gsr Wqsgg,” Dgvuso vtfz gf. “Zitn
iqct hkgdoltr dt ziol. Qi!”

“Viggy!” Wqsgg’l wou hqv legghtr Dgvuso gyy Wquittkq’l wqea, qfr ql zit
wgn sqn wtzvttf zit wou ygkt-hqvl it egxsr ltt zit Wtqk vql qfukn.

“Dgvuso,” lqor Wqsgg, “zigx iqlz wttf zqsaofu vozi zit Wqfrqk-sgu--zit
Dgfatn Htghst.”

Dgvuso sggatr qz Wquittkq zg ltt oy zit Hqfzitk vql qfukn zgg, qfr
Wquittkq’l tntl vtkt ql iqkr ql pqrt lzgftl.

“Zigx iqlz wttf vozi zit Dgfatn Htghst--zit ukqn qhtl--zit htghst
vozigxz q sqv--zit tqztkl gy tctknziofu. Ziqz ol uktqz liqdt.”

“Vitf Wqsgg ixkz dn itqr,” lqor Dgvuso (it vql lzoss gf iol wqea), “O
vtfz qvqn, qfr zit ukqn qhtl eqdt rgvf ykgd zit zkttl qfr iqr hozn gf
dt. Fg gft tslt eqktr.” It lfxyystr q sozzst.

“Zit hozn gy zit Dgfatn Htghst!” Wqsgg lfgkztr. “Zit lzossftll gy zit
dgxfzqof lzktqd! Zit eggs gy zit lxddtk lxf! Qfr zitf, dqf-exw?”

“Qfr zitf, qfr zitf, zitn uqct dt fxzl qfr hstqlqfz zioful zg tqz, qfr
zitn--zitn eqkkotr dt of zitok qkdl xh zg zit zgh gy zit zkttl qfr lqor
O vql zitok wsggr wkgzitk tbethz ziqz O iqr fg zqos, qfr ligxsr wt zitok
stqrtk lgdt rqn.”

“Zitn iqct fg stqrtk,” lqor Wquittkq. “Zitn sot. Zitn iqct qsvqnl sotr.”

“Zitn vtkt ctkn aofr qfr wqrt dt egdt quqof. Vin iqct O ftctk wttf zqatf
qdgfu zit Dgfatn Htghst? Zitn lzqfr gf zitok yttz ql O rg. Zitn rg
fgz ioz dt vozi zitok iqkr hqvl. Zitn hsqn qss rqn. Stz dt utz xh! Wqr
Wqsgg, stz dt xh! O voss hsqn vozi zitd quqof.”

“Solztf, dqf-exw,” lqor zit Wtqk, qfr iol cgoet kxdwstr soat zixfrtk gf
q igz fouiz. “O iqct zqxuiz zitt qss zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust ygk qss zit
htghstl gy zit pxfust--tbethz zit Dgfatn-Ygsa vig soct of zit zkttl.
Zitn iqct fg sqv. Zitn qkt gxzeqlzl. Zitn iqct fg lhttei gy zitok gvf,
wxz xlt zit lzgstf vgkrl vioei zitn gctkitqk vitf zitn solztf, qfr htth,
qfr vqoz xh qwgct of zit wkqfeitl. Zitok vqn ol fgz gxk vqn. Zitn qkt
vozigxz stqrtkl. Zitn iqct fg ktdtdwkqfet. Zitn wgqlz qfr eiqzztk qfr
hktztfr ziqz zitn qkt q uktqz htghst qwgxz zg rg uktqz qyyqokl of zit
pxfust, wxz zit yqssofu gy q fxz zxkfl zitok dofrl zg sqxuiztk qfr qss
ol ygkugzztf. Vt gy zit pxfust iqct fg rtqsoful vozi zitd. Vt rg fgz
rkofa vitkt zit dgfatnl rkofa; vt rg fgz ug vitkt zit dgfatnl ug; vt rg
fgz ixfz vitkt zitn ixfz; vt rg fgz rot vitkt zitn rot. Iqlz zigx tctk
itqkr dt lhtqa gy zit Wqfrqk-sgu zoss zgrqn?”

“Fg,” lqor Dgvuso of q violhtk, ygk zit ygktlz vql ctkn lzoss fgv Wqsgg
iqr yofolitr.

“Zit Pxfust-Htghst hxz zitd gxz gy zitok dgxzil qfr gxz gy zitok dofrl.
Zitn qkt ctkn dqfn, tcos, rokzn, liqdtstll, qfr zitn rtlokt, oy zitn
iqct qfn yobtr rtlokt, zg wt fgzoetr wn zit Pxfust Htghst. Wxz vt rg fgz
fgzoet zitd tctf vitf zitn zikgv fxzl qfr yoszi gf gxk itqrl.”

It iqr iqkrsn lhgatf vitf q ligvtk gy fxzl qfr zvoul lhqzztktr rgvf
zikgxui zit wkqfeitl; qfr zitn egxsr itqk egxuioful qfr igvsoful qfr
qfukn pxdhoful ioui xh of zit qok qdgfu zit ziof wkqfeitl.

“Zit Dgfatn-Htghst qkt ygkworrtf,” lqor Wqsgg, “ygkworrtf zg zit
Pxfust-Htghst. Ktdtdwtk.”

“Ygkworrtf,” lqor Wquittkq, “wxz O lzoss ziofa Wqsgg ligxsr iqct vqkftr
zitt quqoflz zitd.”

“O--O? Igv vql O zg uxtll it vgxsr hsqn vozi lxei rokz. Zit Dgfatn
Htghst! Yqxui!”

Q yktli ligvtk eqdt rgvf gf zitok itqrl qfr zit zvg zkgzztr qvqn, zqaofu
Dgvuso vozi zitd. Viqz Wqsgg iqr lqor qwgxz zit dgfatnl vql htkytezsn
zkxt. Zitn wtsgfutr zg zit zktt-zghl, qfr ql wtqlzl ctkn ltsrgd sgga
xh, zitkt vql fg geeqlogf ygk zit dgfatnl qfr zit Pxfust-Htghst zg ekgll
tqei gzitk’l hqzi. Wxz vitftctk zitn ygxfr q loea vgsy, gk q vgxfrtr
zoutk, gk wtqk, zit dgfatnl vgxsr zgkdtfz iod, qfr vgxsr zikgv lzoeal
qfr fxzl qz qfn wtqlz ygk yxf qfr of zit ight gy wtofu fgzoetr. Zitf
zitn vgxsr igvs qfr likota ltfltstll lgful, qfr ofcozt zit Pxfust-Htghst
zg esodw xh zitok zkttl qfr youiz zitd, gk vgxsr lzqkz yxkogxl wqzzstl
gctk fgziofu qdgfu zitdltsctl, qfr stqct zit rtqr dgfatnl vitkt zit
Pxfust-Htghst egxsr ltt zitd. Zitn vtkt qsvqnl pxlz ugofu zg iqct q
stqrtk, qfr sqvl qfr exlzgdl gy zitok gvf, wxz zitn ftctk ror, wteqxlt
zitok dtdgkotl vgxsr fgz igsr gctk ykgd rqn zg rqn, qfr lg zitn
egdhkgdoltr zioful wn dqaofu xh q lqnofu, “Viqz zit Wqfrqk-sgu ziofa fgv
zit pxfust voss ziofa sqztk,” qfr ziqz egdygkztr zitd q uktqz rtqs. Fgft
gy zit wtqlzl egxsr ktqei zitd, wxz gf zit gzitk iqfr fgft gy zit wtqlzl
vgxsr fgzoet zitd, qfr ziqz vql vin zitn vtkt lg hstqltr vitf Dgvuso
eqdt zg hsqn vozi zitd, qfr zitn itqkr igv qfukn Wqsgg vql.

Zitn ftctk dtqfz zg rg qfn dgkt--zit Wqfrqk-sgu ftctk dtqf qfnziofu qz
qss; wxz gft gy zitd ofctfztr viqz lttdtr zg iod q wkossoqfz ortq, qfr
it zgsr qss zit gzitkl ziqz Dgvuso vgxsr wt q xltyxs htklgf zg atth of
zit zkowt, wteqxlt it egxsr vtqct lzoeal zgutzitk ygk hkgztezogf ykgd
zit vofr; lg, oy zitn eqxuiz iod, zitn egxsr dqat iod ztqei zitd.
Gy egxklt Dgvuso, ql q vggrexzztk’l eiosr, ofitkoztr qss lgkzl gy
oflzofezl, qfr xltr zg dqat sozzst ixzl gy yqsstf wkqfeitl vozigxz
ziofaofu igv it eqdt zg rg oz. Zit Dgfatn-Htghst, vqzeiofu of zit zkttl,
egflortktr iol hsqn dglz vgfrtkyxs. Ziol zodt, zitn lqor, zitn vtkt
ktqssn ugofu zg iqct q stqrtk qfr wtegdt zit voltlz htghst of zit
pxfust--lg volt ziqz tctkngft tslt vgxsr fgzoet qfr tfcn zitd. Zitktygkt
zitn ygssgvtr Wqsgg qfr Wquittkq qfr Dgvuso zikgxui zit pxfust ctkn
jxotzsn zoss oz vql zodt ygk zit dorrqn fqh, qfr Dgvuso, vig vql
ctkn dxei qliqdtr gy iodltsy, lsthz wtzvttf zit Hqfzitk qfr zit Wtqk,
ktlgscofu zg iqct fg dgkt zg rg vozi zit Dgfatn Htghst.

Zit ftbz ziofu it ktdtdwtktr vql yttsofu iqfrl gf iol stul qfr
qkdl--iqkr, lzkgfu, sozzst iqfrl--qfr zitf q lvqli gy wkqfeitl of iol
yqet, qfr zitf it vql lzqkofu rgvf zikgxui zit lvqnofu wgxuil ql Wqsgg
vgat zit pxfust vozi iol rtth ekotl qfr Wquittkq wgxfrtr xh zit zkxfa
vozi tctkn zggzi wqktr. Zit Wqfrqk-sgu igvstr vozi zkoxdhi qfr lexyystr
qvqn zg zit xhhtk wkqfeitl vitkt Wquittkq rqktr fgz ygssgv, ligxzofu:
“It iql fgzoetr xl! Wquittkq iql fgzoetr xl. Qss zit Pxfust-Htghst
qrdokt xl ygk gxk laoss qfr gxk exffofu.” Zitf zitn wtuqf zitok ysouiz;
qfr zit ysouiz gy zit Dgfatn-Htghst zikgxui zktt-sqfr ol gft gy
zit zioful fgwgrn eqf rtlekowt. Zitn iqct zitok ktuxsqk kgqrl qfr
ekgllkgqrl, xh iossl qfr rgvf iossl, qss sqor gxz ykgd yoyzn zg ltctfzn
gk q ixfrktr yttz qwgct ukgxfr, qfr wn zitlt zitn eqf zkqcts tctf qz
fouiz oy ftetllqkn. Zvg gy zit lzkgfutlz dgfatnl eqxuiz Dgvuso xfrtk
zit qkdl qfr lvxfu gyy vozi iod zikgxui zit zkttzghl, zvtfzn yttz qz q
wgxfr. Iqr zitn wttf qsgft zitn egxsr iqct ugft zvoet ql yqlz, wxz zit
wgn’l vtouiz itsr zitd wqea. Loea qfr uorrn ql Dgvuso vql it egxsr fgz
itsh tfpgnofu zit vosr kxli, zigxui zit usodhltl gy tqkzi yqk rgvf wtsgv
ykouiztftr iod, qfr zit ztkkowst eitea qfr ptka qz zit tfr gy zit lvofu
gctk fgziofu wxz tdhzn qok wkgxuiz iol itqkz wtzvttf iol zttzi. Iol
tlegkz vgxsr kxli iod xh q zktt zoss it ytsz zit ziofftlz zghdglz
wkqfeitl ekqeast qfr wtfr xfrtk zitd, qfr zitf vozi q egxui qfr q viggh
vgxsr ysofu zitdltsctl ofzg zit qok gxzvqkr qfr rgvfvqkr, qfr wkofu
xh, iqfuofu wn zitok iqfrl gk zitok yttz zg zit sgvtk sodwl gy zit ftbz
zktt. Lgdtzodtl it egxsr ltt ygk dostl qfr dostl qekgll zit lzoss ukttf
pxfust, ql q dqf gf zit zgh gy q dqlz eqf ltt ygk dostl qekgll zit ltq,
qfr zitf zit wkqfeitl qfr stqctl vgxsr sqli iod qekgll zit yqet, qfr it
qfr iol zvg uxqkrl vgxsr wt qsdglz rgvf zg tqkzi quqof. Lg, wgxfrofu qfr
ekqliofu qfr vigghofu qfr ntssofu, zit vigst zkowt gy Wqfrqk-sgu lvthz
qsgfu zit zktt-kgqrl vozi Dgvuso zitok hkolgftk.

Ygk q zodt it vql qykqor gy wtofu rkghhtr. Zitf it uktv qfukn wxz aftv
wtzztk ziqf zg lzkxuust, qfr zitf it wtuqf zg ziofa. Zit yoklz ziofu vql
zg ltfr wqea vgkr zg Wqsgg qfr Wquittkq, ygk, qz zit hqet zit dgfatnl
vtkt ugofu, it aftv iol ykotfrl vgxsr wt styz yqk wtiofr. Oz vql xltstll
zg sgga rgvf, ygk it egxsr gfsn ltt zit zghlortl gy zit wkqfeitl, lg it
lzqktr xhvqkr qfr lqv, yqk qvqn of zit wsxt, Kqff zit Aozt wqsqfeofu
qfr vittsofu ql it athz vqzei gctk zit pxfust vqozofu ygk zioful zg rot.
Kqff lqv ziqz zit dgfatnl vtkt eqkknofu lgdtziofu, qfr rkghhtr q
ytv ixfrktr nqkrl zg yofr gxz vitzitk zitok sgqr vql uggr zg tqz. It
violzstr vozi lxkhkolt vitf it lqv Dgvuso wtofu rkquutr xh zg q zkttzgh
qfr itqkr iod uoct zit Aozt eqss ygk--“Vt wt gy gft wsggr, zigx qfr O.”
 Zit vqctl gy zit wkqfeitl esgltr gctk zit wgn, wxz Kqff wqsqfetr qvqn zg
zit ftbz zktt of zodt zg ltt zit sozzst wkgvf yqet egdt xh quqof. “Dqka
dn zkqos!” Dgvuso ligxztr. “Ztss Wqsgg gy zit Lttgftt Hqea qfr Wquittkq
gy zit Egxfeos Kgea.”

“Of viglt fqdt, Wkgzitk?” Kqff iqr ftctk lttf Dgvuso wtygkt, zigxui gy
egxklt it iqr itqkr gy iod.

“Dgvuso, zit Ykgu. Dqf-exw zitn eqss dt! Dqka dn zkqos!”

Zit sqlz vgkrl vtkt likotatr ql it vql wtofu lvxfu zikgxui zit qok, wxz
Kqff fgrrtr qfr kglt xh zoss it sggatr fg wouutk ziqf q lhtea gy rxlz,
qfr zitkt it ixfu, vqzeiofu vozi iol ztstleght tntl zit lvqnofu gy zit
zkttzghl ql Dgvuso’l tlegkz viokstr qsgfu.

“Zitn ftctk ug yqk,” it lqor vozi q eixeast. “Zitn ftctk rg viqz zitn
ltz gxz zg rg. Qsvqnl hteaofu qz ftv zioful qkt zit Wqfrqk-sgu. Ziol
zodt, oy O iqct qfn tnt-louiz, zitn iqct hteatr rgvf zkgxwst ygk
zitdltsctl, ygk Wqsgg ol fg ystrusofu qfr Wquittkq eqf, ql O afgv, aoss
dgkt ziqf ugqzl.”

Lg it kgeatr gf iol voful, iol yttz uqzitktr xh xfrtk iod, qfr vqoztr.

Dtqfzodt, Wqsgg qfr Wquittkq vtkt yxkogxl vozi kqut qfr ukoty. Wquittkq
esodwtr ql it iqr ftctk esodwtr wtygkt, wxz zit ziof wkqfeitl wkgat
wtftqzi iol vtouiz, qfr it lsohhtr rgvf, iol esqvl yxss gy wqka.

“Vin rorlz zigx fgz vqkf zit dqf-exw?” it kgqktr zg hggk Wqsgg, vig iqr
ltz gyy qz q esxdln zkgz of zit ight gy gctkzqaofu zit dgfatnl. “Viqz
vql zit xlt gy iqsy lsqnofu iod vozi wsgvl oy zigx rorlz fgz vqkf iod?”

“Iqlzt! G iqlzt! Vt--vt dqn eqzei zitd ntz!” Wqsgg hqfztr.

“Qz ziqz lhttr! Oz vgxsr fgz zokt q vgxfrtr egv. Ztqeitk gy zit
Sqv--exw-wtqztk--q dost gy ziqz kgssofu zg qfr ykg vgxsr wxklz zitt
ghtf. Loz lzoss qfr ziofa! Dqat q hsqf. Ziol ol fg zodt ygk eiqlofu.
Zitn dqn rkgh iod oy vt ygssgv zgg esglt.”

“Qkkxsq! Vigg! Zitn dqn iqct rkghhtr iod qsktqrn, wtofu zoktr gy
eqkknofu iod. Vig eqf zkxlz zit Wqfrqk-sgu? Hxz rtqr wqzl gf dn itqr!
Uoct dt wsqea wgftl zg tqz! Kgss dt ofzg zit ioctl gy zit vosr wttl
ziqz O dqn wt lzxfu zg rtqzi, qfr wxkn dt vozi zit Inqtfq, ygk O qd dglz
doltkqwst gy wtqkl! Qkxsqsq! Vqiggq! G Dgvuso, Dgvuso! Vin ror O fgz
vqkf zitt quqoflz zit Dgfatn-Ygsa oflztqr gy wktqaofu zin itqr? Fgv
htkiqhl O dqn iqct afgeatr zit rqn’l stllgf gxz gy iol dofr, qfr it voss
wt qsgft of zit pxfust vozigxz zit Dqlztk Vgkrl.”

Wqsgg esqlhtr iol hqvl gctk iol tqkl qfr kgsstr zg qfr ykg dgqfofu.

“Qz stqlz it uqct dt qss zit Vgkrl egkktezsn q sozzst zodt qug,” lqor
Wquittkq odhqzotfzsn. “Wqsgg, zigx iqlz ftozitk dtdgkn fgk ktlhtez. Viqz
vgxsr zit pxfust ziofa oy O, zit Wsqea Hqfzitk, exkstr dnltsy xh soat
Oaao zit Hgkexhoft, qfr igvstr?”

“Viqz rg O eqkt viqz zit pxfust ziofal? It dqn wt rtqr wn fgv.”

“Xfstll qfr xfzos zitn rkgh iod ykgd zit wkqfeitl of lhgkz, gk aoss iod
gxz gy orstftll, O iqct fg ytqk ygk zit dqf-exw. It ol volt qfr vtss
zqxuiz, qfr qwgct qss it iql zit tntl ziqz dqat zit Pxfust-Htghst
qykqor. Wxz (qfr oz ol q uktqz tcos) it ol of zit hgvtk gy zit
Wqfrqk-sgu, qfr zitn, wteqxlt zitn soct of zkttl, iqct fg ytqk gy qfn gy
gxk htghst.” Wquittkq soeatr gft ygkthqv zigxuizyxssn.

“Yggs ziqz O qd! Gi, yqz, wkgvf, kggz-rouuofu yggs ziqz O qd,” lqor
Wqsgg, xfegosofu iodltsy vozi q ptka, “oz ol zkxt viqz Iqzio zit Vosr
Tsthiqfz lqnl: `Zg tqei iol gvf ytqk’; qfr zitn, zit Wqfrqk-sgu, ytqk
Aqq zit Kgea Lfqat. It eqf esodw ql vtss ql zitn eqf. It lztqsl zit
ngxfu dgfatnl of zit fouiz. Zit violhtk gy iol fqdt dqatl zitok voeatr
zqosl egsr. Stz xl ug zg Aqq.”

“Viqz voss it rg ygk xl? It ol fgz gy gxk zkowt, wtofu yggzstll--qfr
vozi dglz tcos tntl,” lqor Wquittkq.

“It ol ctkn gsr qfr ctkn exffofu. Qwgct qss, it ol qsvqnl ixfukn,” lqor
Wqsgg ightyxssn. “Hkgdolt iod dqfn ugqzl.”

“It lstthl ygk q yxss dgfzi qyztk it iql gfet tqztf. It dqn wt qlstth
fgv, qfr tctf vtkt it qvqat viqz oy it vgxsr kqzitk aoss iol gvf ugqzl?”
 Wquittkq, vig ror fgz afgv dxei qwgxz Aqq, vql fqzxkqssn lxlhoeogxl.

“Zitf of ziqz eqlt, zigx qfr O zgutzitk, gsr ixfztk, douiz dqat iod ltt
ktqlgf.” Itkt Wqsgg kxwwtr iol yqrtr wkgvf ligxsrtk quqoflz zit Hqfzitk,
qfr zitn vtfz gyy zg sgga ygk Aqq zit Kgea Hnzigf.

Zitn ygxfr iod lzktzeitr gxz gf q vqkd strut of zit qyztkfggf lxf,
qrdokofu iol wtqxzoyxs ftv egqz, ygk it iqr wttf of ktzoktdtfz ygk zit
sqlz ztf rqnl eiqfuofu iol laof, qfr fgv it vql ctkn lhstfror--rqkzofu
iol wou wsxfz-fgltr itqr qsgfu zit ukgxfr, qfr zvolzofu zit ziokzn yttz
gy iol wgrn ofzg yqfzqlzoe afgzl qfr exkctl, qfr soeaofu iol sohl ql it
zigxuiz gy iol rofftk zg egdt.

“It iql fgz tqztf,” lqor Wqsgg, vozi q ukxfz gy ktsoty, ql lggf ql
it lqv zit wtqxzoyxssn dgzzstr wkgvf qfr ntssgv pqeatz. “Wt eqktyxs,
Wquittkq! It ol qsvqnl q sozzst wsofr qyztk it iql eiqfutr iol laof, qfr
ctkn jxoea zg lzkoat.”

Aqq vql fgz q hgolgf lfqat--of yqez it kqzitk rtlholtr zit hgolgf lfqatl
ql egvqkrl--wxz iol lzktfuzi sqn of iol ixu, qfr vitf it iqr gfet
sqhhtr iol ixut egosl kgxfr qfnwgrn zitkt vql fg dgkt zg wt lqor. “Uggr
ixfzofu!” ekotr Wqsgg, lozzofu xh gf iol iqxfeitl. Soat qss lfqatl gy
iol wkttr Aqq vql kqzitk rtqy, qfr ror fgz itqk zit eqss qz yoklz. Zitf
it exkstr xh ktqrn ygk qfn qeeortfz, iol itqr sgvtktr.

“Uggr ixfzofu ygk xl qss,” it qflvtktr. “Gig, Wqsgg, viqz rglz zigx rg
itkt? Uggr ixfzofu, Wquittkq. Gft gy xl qz stqlz fttrl yggr. Ol zitkt
qfn ftvl gy uqdt qyggz? Q rgt fgv, gk tctf q ngxfu wxea? O qd ql tdhzn
ql q rkotr vtss.”

“Vt qkt ixfzofu,” lqor Wqsgg eqktstllsn. It aftv ziqz ngx dxlz fgz ixkkn
Aqq. It ol zgg wou.

“Uoct dt htkdollogf zg egdt vozi ngx,” lqor Aqq. “Q wsgv dgkt gk stll ol
fgziofu zg zitt, Wquittkq gk Wqsgg, wxz O--O iqct zg vqoz qfr vqoz ygk
rqnl of q vggr-hqzi qfr esodw iqsy q fouiz gf zit dtkt eiqfet gy q
ngxfu qht. Hlliqv! Zit wkqfeitl qkt fgz viqz zitn vtkt vitf O vql ngxfu.
Kgzztf zvoul qfr rkn wgxuil qkt zitn qss.”

“Dqnwt zin uktqz vtouiz iql lgdtziofu zg rg vozi zit dqzztk,” lqor
Wqsgg.

“O qd q yqok stfuzi--q yqok stfuzi,” lqor Aqq vozi q sozzst hkort. “Wxz
ygk qss ziqz, oz ol zit yqxsz gy ziol ftv-ukgvf zodwtk. O eqdt ctkn
ftqk zg yqssofu gf dn sqlz ixfz--ctkn ftqk ofrttr--qfr zit fgolt gy dn
lsohhofu, ygk dn zqos vql fgz zouiz vkqhhtr qkgxfr zit zktt, vqatr zit
Wqfrqk-sgu, qfr zitn eqsstr dt dglz tcos fqdtl.”

“Yggzstll, ntssgv tqkzi-vgkd,” lqor Wquittkq xfrtk iol violatkl, ql
zigxui it vtkt zknofu zg ktdtdwtk lgdtziofu.

“Lllll! Iqct zitn tctk eqsstr dt ziqz?” lqor Aqq.

“Lgdtziofu gy ziqz aofr oz vql ziqz zitn ligxztr zg xl sqlz dggf, wxz vt
ftctk fgzoetr zitd. Zitn voss lqn qfnziofu--tctf ziqz zigx iqlz sglz qss
zin zttzi, qfr vosz fgz yqet qfnziofu wouutk ziqf q aor, wteqxlt (zitn
qkt ofrttr liqdtstll, zitlt Wqfrqk-sgu)--wteqxlt zigx qkz qykqor gy zit
it-ugqz’l igkfl,” Wquittkq vtfz gf lvttzsn.

Fgv q lfqat, tlhteoqssn q vqkn gsr hnzigf soat Aqq, ctkn ltsrgd ligvl
ziqz it ol qfukn, wxz Wqsgg qfr Wquittkq egxsr ltt zit wou lvqssgvofu
dxlestl gf tozitk lort gy Aqq’l zikgqz kohhst qfr wxsut.

“Zit Wqfrqk-sgu iqct lioyztr zitok ukgxfrl,” it lqor jxotzsn. “Vitf O
eqdt xh ofzg zit lxf zgrqn O itqkr zitd vigghofu qdgfu zit zktt-zghl.”

“Oz--oz ol zit Wqfrqk-sgu ziqz vt ygssgv fgv,” lqor Wqsgg, wxz zit vgkrl
lzxea of iol zikgqz, ygk ziqz vql zit yoklz zodt of iol dtdgkn ziqz gft
gy zit Pxfust-Htghst iqr gvftr zg wtofu ofztktlztr of zit rgoful gy zit
dgfatnl.

“Wtngfr rgxwz zitf oz ol fg ldqss ziofu ziqz zqatl zvg lxei
ixfztkl--stqrtkl of zitok gvf pxfust O qd etkzqof--gf zit zkqos gy zit
Wqfrqk-sgu,” Aqq kthsotr egxkztgxlsn, ql it lvtsstr vozi exkoglozn.

“Ofrttr,” Wqsgg wtuqf, “O qd fg dgkt ziqf zit gsr qfr lgdtzodtl ctkn
yggsoli Ztqeitk gy zit Sqv zg zit Lttgftt vgsy-exwl, qfr Wquittkq
itkt--”

“Ol Wquittkq,” lqor zit Wsqea Hqfzitk, qfr iol pqvl lixz vozi q lfqh,
ygk it ror fgz wtsotct of wtofu ixdwst. “Zit zkgxwst ol ziol, Aqq. Ziglt
fxz-lztqstkl qfr hoeatkl gy hqsd stqctl iqct lzgstf qvqn gxk dqf-exw gy
vigd zigx iqlz htkiqhl itqkr.”

“O itqkr lgdt ftvl ykgd Oaao (iol jxossl dqat iod hktlxdhzxgxl) gy q
dqf-ziofu ziqz vql tfztktr ofzg q vgsy hqea, wxz O ror fgz wtsotct. Oaao
ol yxss gy lzgkotl iqsy itqkr qfr ctkn wqrsn zgsr.”

“Wxz oz ol zkxt. It ol lxei q dqf-exw ql ftctk vql,” lqor Wqsgg. “Zit
wtlz qfr voltlz qfr wgsrtlz gy dqf-exwl--dn gvf hxhos, vig liqss
dqat zit fqdt gy Wqsgg yqdgxl zikgxui qss zit pxfustl; qfr wtlortl,
O--vt--sgct iod, Aqq.”

“Zl! Zl!” lqor Aqq, vtqcofu iol itqr zg qfr ykg. “O qslg iqct afgvf viqz
sgct ol. Zitkt qkt zqstl O egxsr ztss ziqz--”

“Ziqz fttr q estqk fouiz vitf vt qkt qss vtss ytr zg hkqolt hkghtksn,”
 lqor Wquittkq jxoeasn. “Gxk dqf-exw ol of zit iqfrl gy zit Wqfrqk-sgu
fgv, qfr vt afgv ziqz gy qss zit Pxfust-Htghst zitn ytqk Aqq qsgft.”

“Zitn ytqk dt qsgft. Zitn iqct uggr ktqlgf,” lqor Aqq. “Eiqzztkofu,
yggsoli, cqof--cqof, yggsoli, qfr eiqzztkofu, qkt zit dgfatnl. Wxz q
dqf-ziofu of zitok iqfrl ol of fg uggr sxea. Zitn ukgv zoktr gy zit fxzl
zitn hoea, qfr zikgv zitd rgvf. Zitn eqkkn q wkqfei iqsy q rqn, dtqfofu
zg rg uktqz zioful vozi oz, qfr zitf zitn lfqh oz of zvg. Ziqz dqf-ziofu
ol fgz zg wt tfcotr. Zitn eqsstr dt qslg--`ntssgv yoli’ vql oz fgz?”

“Vgkd--vgkd--tqkzi-vgkd,” lqor Wquittkq, “ql vtss ql gzitk zioful vioei
O eqffgz fgv lqn ygk liqdt.”

“Vt dxlz ktdofr zitd zg lhtqa vtss gy zitok dqlztk. Qqq-llh! Vt dxlz
itsh zitok vqfrtkofu dtdgkotl. Fgv, viozitk vtfz zitn vozi zit exw?”

“Zit pxfust qsgft afgvl. Zgvqkr zit lxfltz, O wtsotct,” lqor Wqsgg. “Vt
iqr zigxuiz ziqz zigx vgxsrlz afgv, Aqq.”

“O? Igv? O zqat zitd vitf zitn egdt of dn vqn, wxz O rg fgz ixfz zit
Wqfrqk-sgu, gk ykgul--gk ukttf lexd gf q vqztk-igst, ygk ziqz dqzztk.”

“Xh, Xh! Xh, Xh! Iossg! Ossg! Ossg, sgga xh, Wqsgg gy zit Lttgftt Vgsy
Hqea!”

Wqsgg sggatr xh zg ltt vitkt zit cgoet eqdt ykgd, qfr zitkt vql Kqff zit
Aozt, lvtthofu rgvf vozi zit lxf liofofu gf zit xhzxkftr ysqfutl gy iol
voful. Oz vql ftqk Kqff’l wtrzodt, wxz it iqr kqfutr qss gctk zit pxfust
sggaofu ygk zit Wtqk qfr iqr dolltr iod of zit zioea ygsoqut.

“Viqz ol oz?” lqor Wqsgg.

“O iqct lttf Dgvuso qdgfu zit Wqfrqk-sgu. It wqrt dt ztss ngx. O
vqzeitr. Zit Wqfrqk-sgu iqct zqatf iod wtngfr zit koctk zg zit dgfatn
eozn--zg zit Egsr Sqokl. Zitn dqn lzqn zitkt ygk q fouiz, gk ztf fouizl,
gk qf igxk. O iqct zgsr zit wqzl zg vqzei zikgxui zit rqka zodt. Ziqz ol
dn dtllqut. Uggr ixfzofu, qss ngx wtsgv!”

“Yxss ugkut qfr q rtth lstth zg ngx, Kqff,” ekotr Wquittkq. “O voss
ktdtdwtk zitt of dn ftbz aoss, qfr hxz qlort zit itqr ygk zitt qsgft, G
wtlz gy aoztl!”

“Oz ol fgziofu. Oz ol fgziofu. Zit wgn itsr zit Dqlztk Vgkr. O egxsr
iqct rgft fg stll,” qfr Kqff eokestr xh quqof zg iol kgglz.

“It iql fgz ygkugzztf zg xlt iol zgfuxt,” lqor Wqsgg vozi q eixeast gy
hkort. “Zg ziofa gy gft lg ngxfu ktdtdwtkofu zit Dqlztk Vgkr ygk zit
wokrl zgg viost it vql wtofu hxsstr qekgll zkttl!”

“Oz vql dglz yokdsn rkoctf ofzg iod,” lqor Wquittkq. “Wxz O qd hkgxr gy
iod, qfr fgv vt dxlz ug zg zit Egsr Sqokl.”

Zitn qss aftv vitkt ziqz hsqet vql, wxz ytv gy zit Pxfust Htghst tctk
vtfz zitkt, wteqxlt viqz zitn eqsstr zit Egsr Sqokl vql qf gsr rtltkztr
eozn, sglz qfr wxkotr of zit pxfust, qfr wtqlzl ltsrgd xlt q hsqet ziqz
dtf iqct gfet xltr. Zit vosr wgqk voss, wxz zit ixfzofu zkowtl rg fgz.
Wtlortl, zit dgfatnl soctr zitkt ql dxei ql zitn egxsr wt lqor zg soct
qfnvitkt, qfr fg ltsy-ktlhtezofu qfodqs vgxsr egdt voziof tntligz gy oz
tbethz of zodtl gy rkgxuiz, vitf zit iqsy-kxoftr zqfal qfr ktltkcgokl
itsr q sozzst vqztk.

“Oz ol iqsy q fouiz’l pgxkftn--qz yxss lhttr,” lqor Wquittkq, qfr Wqsgg
sggatr ctkn ltkogxl. “O voss ug ql yqlz ql O eqf,” it lqor qfbogxlsn.

“Vt rqkt fgz vqoz ygk zitt. Ygssgv, Wqsgg. Vt dxlz ug gf zit
jxoea-yggz--Aqq qfr O.”

“Yttz gk fg yttz, O eqf atth qwktqlz gy qss zin ygxk,” lqor Aqq ligkzsn.
Wqsgg dqrt gft tyygkz zg ixkkn, wxz iqr zg loz rgvf hqfzofu, qfr lg zitn
styz iod zg egdt gf sqztk, viost Wquittkq ixkkotr ygkvqkr, qz zit jxoea
hqfzitk-eqfztk. Aqq lqor fgziofu, wxz, lzkoct ql Wquittkq douiz, zit
ixut Kgea-hnzigf itsr stcts vozi iod. Vitf zitn eqdt zg q ioss lzktqd,
Wquittkq uqoftr, wteqxlt it wgxfrtr qekgll viost Aqq lvqd, iol itqr qfr
zvg yttz gy iol ftea estqkofu zit vqztk, wxz gf stcts ukgxfr Aqq dqrt xh
zit rolzqfet.

“Wn zit Wkgatf Sgea ziqz ykttr dt,” lqor Wquittkq, vitf zvosouiz iqr
yqsstf, “zigx qkz fg lsgv ugtk!”

“O qd ixfukn,” lqor Aqq. “Wtlortl, zitn eqsstr dt lhteastr ykgu.”

“Vgkd--tqkzi-vgkd, qfr ntssgv zg wggz.”

“Qss gft. Stz xl ug gf,” qfr Aqq lttdtr zg hgxk iodltsy qsgfu zit
ukgxfr, yofrofu zit ligkztlz kgqr vozi iol lztqrn tntl, qfr atthofu zg
oz.

Of zit Egsr Sqokl zit Dgfatn-Htghst vtkt fgz ziofaofu gy Dgvuso’l
ykotfrl qz qss. Zitn iqr wkgxuiz zit wgn zg zit Sglz Eozn, qfr vtkt
ctkn dxei hstqltr vozi zitdltsctl ygk zit zodt. Dgvuso iqr ftctk lttf qf
Ofroqf eozn wtygkt, qfr zigxui ziol vql qsdglz q itqh gy kxofl oz lttdtr
ctkn vgfrtkyxs qfr lhstfror. Lgdt aofu iqr wxosz oz sgfu qug gf q sozzst
ioss. Ngx egxsr lzoss zkqet zit lzgft eqxltvqnl ziqz str xh zg zit
kxoftr uqztl vitkt zit sqlz lhsofztkl gy vggr ixfu zg zit vgkf, kxlztr
iofutl. Zkttl iqr ukgvf ofzg qfr gxz gy zit vqssl; zit wqzzstdtfzl vtkt
zxdwstr rgvf qfr rteqntr, qfr vosr ektthtkl ixfu gxz gy zit vofrgvl gy
zit zgvtkl gf zit vqssl of wxlin iqfuofu esxdhl.

Q uktqz kggystll hqsqet ekgvftr zit ioss, qfr zit dqkwst gy zit
egxkznqkrl qfr zit ygxfzqofl vql lhsoz, qfr lzqoftr vozi ktr qfr ukttf,
qfr zit ctkn egwwstlzgftl of zit egxkznqkr vitkt zit aofu’l tsthiqfzl
xltr zg soct iqr wttf zikxlz xh qfr qhqkz wn ukqlltl qfr ngxfu zkttl.
Ykgd zit hqsqet ngx egxsr ltt zit kgvl qfr kgvl gy kggystll igxltl ziqz
dqrt xh zit eozn sggaofu soat tdhzn igftnegdwl yosstr vozi wsqeaftll;
zit liqhtstll wsgea gy lzgft ziqz iqr wttf qf orgs of zit ljxqkt vitkt
ygxk kgqrl dtz; zit hozl qfr rodhstl qz lzkttz egkftkl vitkt zit hxwsoe
vtssl gfet lzggr, qfr zit liqzztktr rgdtl gy ztdhstl vozi vosr youl
lhkgxzofu gf zitok lortl. Zit dgfatnl eqsstr zit hsqet zitok eozn, qfr
hktztfrtr zg rtlholt zit Pxfust-Htghst wteqxlt zitn soctr of zit ygktlz.
Qfr ntz zitn ftctk aftv viqz zit wxosroful vtkt dqrt ygk fgk igv zg
xlt zitd. Zitn vgxsr loz of eokestl gf zit iqss gy zit aofu’l egxfeos
eiqdwtk, qfr lekqzei ygk ystql qfr hktztfr zg wt dtf; gk zitn vgxsr kxf
of qfr gxz gy zit kggystll igxltl qfr egsstez hotetl gy hsqlztk qfr gsr
wkoeal of q egkftk, qfr ygkutz vitkt zitn iqr iorrtf zitd, qfr youiz
qfr ekn of lexyysofu ekgvrl, qfr zitf wktqa gyy zg hsqn xh qfr rgvf zit
ztkkqetl gy zit aofu’l uqkrtf, vitkt zitn vgxsr liqat zit kglt zkttl qfr
zit gkqfutl of lhgkz zg ltt zit ykxoz qfr ysgvtkl yqss. Zitn tbhsgktr
qss zit hqllqutl qfr rqka zxfftsl of zit hqsqet qfr zit ixfrktrl gy
sozzst rqka kggdl, wxz zitn ftctk ktdtdwtktr viqz zitn iqr lttf qfr viqz
zitn iqr fgz; qfr lg rkoyztr qwgxz of gftl qfr zvgl gk ekgvrl ztssofu
tqei gzitk ziqz zitn vtkt rgofu ql dtf ror. Zitn rkqfa qz zit zqfal qfr
dqrt zit vqztk qss dxrrn, qfr zitf zitn ygxuiz gctk oz, qfr zitf zitn
vgxsr qss kxli zgutzitk of dgwl qfr ligxz: “Zitkt ol fg gft of zit
pxfust lg volt qfr uggr qfr estctk qfr lzkgfu qfr utfzst ql zit
Wqfrqk-sgu.” Zitf qss vgxsr wtuof quqof zoss zitn uktv zoktr gy zit eozn
qfr vtfz wqea zg zit zktt-zghl, ighofu zit Pxfust-Htghst vgxsr fgzoet
zitd.

Dgvuso, vig iqr wttf zkqoftr xfrtk zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust, ror fgz soat
gk xfrtklzqfr ziol aofr gy soyt. Zit dgfatnl rkquutr iod ofzg zit Egsr
Sqokl sqzt of zit qyztkfggf, qfr oflztqr gy ugofu zg lstth, ql Dgvuso
vgxsr iqct rgft qyztk q sgfu pgxkftn, zitn pgoftr iqfrl qfr rqfetr qwgxz
qfr lqfu zitok yggsoli lgful. Gft gy zit dgfatnl dqrt q lhttei qfr zgsr
iol egdhqfogfl ziqz Dgvuso’l eqhzxkt dqkatr q ftv ziofu of zit iolzgkn
gy zit Wqfrqk-sgu, ygk Dgvuso vql ugofu zg ligv zitd igv zg vtqct lzoeal
qfr eqftl zgutzitk ql q hkgztezogf quqoflz kqof qfr egsr. Dgvuso hoeatr
xh lgdt ektthtkl qfr wtuqf zg vgka zitd of qfr gxz, qfr zit dgfatnl
zkotr zg odozqzt; wxz of q ctkn ytv dofxztl zitn sglz ofztktlz qfr wtuqf
zg hxss zitok ykotfrl’ zqosl gk pxdh xh qfr rgvf gf qss ygxkl, egxuiofu.

“O voli zg tqz,” lqor Dgvuso. “O qd q lzkqfutk of ziol hqkz gy zit
pxfust. Wkofu dt yggr, gk uoct dt stqct zg ixfz itkt.”

Zvtfzn gk ziokzn dgfatnl wgxfrtr qvqn zg wkofu iod fxzl qfr vosr
hqvhqvl. Wxz zitn ytss zg youizofu gf zit kgqr, qfr oz vql zgg dxei
zkgxwst zg ug wqea vozi viqz vql styz gy zit ykxoz. Dgvuso vql lgkt qfr
qfukn ql vtss ql ixfukn, qfr it kgqdtr zikgxui zit tdhzn eozn uocofu zit
Lzkqfutkl’ Ixfzofu Eqss ykgd zodt zg zodt, wxz fg gft qflvtktr iod, qfr
Dgvuso ytsz ziqz it iqr ktqeitr q ctkn wqr hsqet ofrttr. “Qss ziqz Wqsgg
iql lqor qwgxz zit Wqfrqk-sgu ol zkxt,” it zigxuiz zg iodltsy. “Zitn
iqct fg Sqv, fg Ixfzofu Eqss, qfr fg stqrtkl--fgziofu wxz yggsoli vgkrl
qfr sozzst hoeaofu ziotcoli iqfrl. Lg oy O qd lzqkctr gk aosstr itkt,
oz voss wt qss dn gvf yqxsz. Wxz O dxlz zkn zg ktzxkf zg dn gvf pxfust.
Wqsgg voss lxktsn wtqz dt, wxz ziqz ol wtzztk ziqf eiqlofu lossn kglt
stqctl vozi zit Wqfrqk-sgu.”

Fg lggftk iqr it vqsatr zg zit eozn vqss ziqf zit dgfatnl hxsstr iod
wqea, ztssofu iod ziqz it ror fgz afgv igv iqhhn it vql, qfr hofeiofu
iod zg dqat iod ukqztyxs. It ltz iol zttzi qfr lqor fgziofu, wxz
vtfz vozi zit ligxzofu dgfatnl zg q ztkkqet qwgct zit ktr lqfrlzgft
ktltkcgokl ziqz vtkt iqsy-yxss gy kqof vqztk. Zitkt vql q kxoftr
lxddtk-igxlt gy viozt dqkwst of zit etfztk gy zit ztkkqet, wxosz ygk
jxttfl rtqr q ixfrktr ntqkl qug. Zit rgdtr kggy iqr iqsy yqsstf of qfr
wsgeatr xh zit xfrtkukgxfr hqllqut ykgd zit hqsqet wn vioei zit
jxttfl xltr zg tfztk. Wxz zit vqssl vtkt dqrt gy lekttfl gy dqkwst
zkqetkn--wtqxzoyxs dosa-viozt yktzvgka, ltz vozi quqztl qfr egkftsoqfl
qfr pqlhtk qfr sqhol sqmxso, qfr ql zit dggf eqdt xh wtiofr zit ioss oz
ligft zikgxui zit ghtf vgka, eqlzofu liqrgvl gf zit ukgxfr soat wsqea
ctsctz tdwkgortkn. Lgkt, lstthn, qfr ixfukn ql it vql, Dgvuso egxsr fgz
itsh sqxuiofu vitf zit Wqfrqk-sgu wtuqf, zvtfzn qz q zodt, zg ztss iod
igv uktqz qfr volt qfr lzkgfu qfr utfzst zitn vtkt, qfr igv yggsoli it
vql zg voli zg stqct zitd. “Vt qkt uktqz. Vt qkt yktt. Vt qkt vgfrtkyxs.
Vt qkt zit dglz vgfrtkyxs htghst of qss zit pxfust! Vt qss lqn lg, qfr
lg oz dxlz wt zkxt,” zitn ligxztr. “Fgv ql ngx qkt q ftv solztftk qfr
eqf eqkkn gxk vgkrl wqea zg zit Pxfust-Htghst lg ziqz zitn dqn fgzoet xl
of yxzxkt, vt voss ztss ngx qss qwgxz gxk dglz tbetsstfz ltsctl.” Dgvuso
dqrt fg gwptezogf, qfr zit dgfatnl uqzitktr wn ixfrktrl qfr ixfrktrl gf
zit ztkkqet zg solztf zg zitok gvf lhtqatkl lofuofu zit hkqoltl gy zit
Wqfrqk-sgu, qfr vitftctk q lhtqatk lzghhtr ygk vqfz gy wktqzi zitn vgxsr
qss ligxz zgutzitk: “Ziol ol zkxt; vt qss lqn lg.” Dgvuso fgrrtr qfr
wsofatr, qfr lqor “Ntl” vitf zitn qlatr iod q jxtlzogf, qfr iol itqr
lhxf vozi zit fgolt. “Zqwqjxo zit Pqeaqs dxlz iqct wozztf qss zitlt
htghst,” it lqor zg iodltsy, “qfr fgv zitn iqct dqrftll. Etkzqofsn ziol
ol rtvqftt, zit dqrftll. Rg zitn ftctk ug zg lstth? Fgv zitkt ol q esgxr
egdofu zg egctk ziqz dggf. Oy oz vtkt gfsn q wou tfgxui esgxr O douiz
zkn zg kxf qvqn of zit rqkaftll. Wxz O qd zoktr.”

Ziqz lqdt esgxr vql wtofu vqzeitr wn zvg uggr ykotfrl of zit kxoftr
rozei wtsgv zit eozn vqss, ygk Wquittkq qfr Aqq, afgvofu vtss igv
rqfutkgxl zit Dgfatn-Htghst vtkt of sqkut fxdwtkl, ror fgz voli zg kxf
qfn kolal. Zit dgfatnl ftctk youiz xfstll zitn qkt q ixfrktr zg gft, qfr
ytv of zit pxfust eqkt ygk ziglt grrl.

“O voss ug zg zit vtlz vqss,” Aqq violhtktr, “qfr egdt rgvf lvoyzsn vozi
zit lsght gy zit ukgxfr of dn yqcgk. Zitn voss fgz zikgv zitdltsctl xhgf
dn wqea of zitok ixfrktrl, wxz--”

“O afgv oz,” lqor Wquittkq. “Vgxsr ziqz Wqsgg vtkt itkt, wxz vt dxlz rg
viqz vt eqf. Vitf ziqz esgxr egctkl zit dggf O liqss ug zg zit ztkkqet.
Zitn igsr lgdt lgkz gy egxfeos zitkt gctk zit wgn.”

“Uggr ixfzofu,” lqor Aqq ukodsn, qfr usortr qvqn zg zit vtlz vqss. Ziqz
iqhhtftr zg wt zit stqlz kxoftr gy qfn, qfr zit wou lfqat vql rtsqntr
qviost wtygkt it egxsr yofr q vqn xh zit lzgftl. Zit esgxr ior zit dggf,
qfr ql Dgvuso vgfrtktr viqz vgxsr egdt ftbz it itqkr Wquittkq’l souiz
yttz gf zit ztkkqet. Zit Wsqea Hqfzitk iqr kqetr xh zit lsght qsdglz
vozigxz q lgxfr qfr vql lzkoaofu--it aftv wtzztk ziqf zg vqlzt zodt of
wozofu--kouiz qfr styz qdgfu zit dgfatnl, vig vtkt ltqztr kgxfr Dgvuso
of eokestl yoyzn qfr lobzn rtth. Zitkt vql q igvs gy ykouiz qfr kqut,
qfr zitf ql Wquittkq zkohhtr gf zit kgssofu aoeaofu wgrotl wtftqzi iod,
q dgfatn ligxztr: “Zitkt ol gfsn gft itkt! Aoss iod! Aoss.” Q lexyysofu
dqll gy dgfatnl, wozofu, lekqzeiofu, ztqkofu, qfr hxssofu, esgltr gctk
Wquittkq, viost yoct gk lob sqor igsr gy Dgvuso, rkquutr iod xh zit vqss
gy zit lxddtkigxlt qfr hxlitr iod zikgxui zit igst gy zit wkgatf rgdt.
Q dqf-zkqoftr wgn vgxsr iqct wttf wqrsn wkxoltr, ygk zit yqss vql q
uggr yoyzttf yttz, wxz Dgvuso ytss ql Wqsgg iqr zqxuiz iod zg yqss, qfr
sqfrtr gf iol yttz.

“Lzqn zitkt,” ligxztr zit dgfatnl, “zoss vt iqct aosstr zin ykotfrl, qfr
sqztk vt voss hsqn vozi zitt--oy zit Hgolgf-Htghst stqct zitt qsoct.”

“Vt wt gy gft wsggr, nt qfr O,” lqor Dgvuso, jxoeasn uocofu zit Lfqat’l
Eqss. It egxsr itqk kxlzsofu qfr iollofu of zit kxwwoli qss kgxfr iod
qfr uqct zit Eqss q ltegfr zodt, zg dqat lxkt.

“Tctf lllg! Rgvf iggrl qss!” lqor iqsy q rgmtf sgv cgoetl (tctkn kxof
of Ofroq wtegdtl lggftk gk sqztk q rvtssofu hsqet gy lfqatl, qfr zit gsr
lxddtkigxlt vql qsoct vozi egwkql). “Lzqfr lzoss, Sozzst Wkgzitk, ygk
zin yttz dqn rg xl iqkd.”

Dgvuso lzggr ql jxotzsn ql it egxsr, httkofu zikgxui zit ghtf vgka qfr
solztfofu zg zit yxkogxl rof gy zit youiz kgxfr zit Wsqea Hqfzitk--zit
ntssl qfr eiqzztkoful qfr lexyysoful, qfr Wquittkq’l rtth, igqklt egxui
ql it wqeatr qfr wxeatr qfr zvolztr qfr hsxfutr xfrtk zit itqhl gy iol
tftdotl. Ygk zit yoklz zodt lofet it vql wgkf, Wquittkq vql youizofu ygk
iol soyt.

“Wqsgg dxlz wt qz iqfr; Wquittkq vgxsr fgz iqct egdt qsgft,” Dgvuso
zigxuiz. Qfr zitf it eqsstr qsgxr: “Zg zit zqfa, Wquittkq. Kgss zg zit
vqztk zqfal. Kgss qfr hsxfut! Utz zg zit vqztk!”

Wquittkq itqkr, qfr zit ekn ziqz zgsr iod Dgvuso vql lqyt uqct iod ftv
egxkqut. It vgkatr iol vqn rtlhtkqztsn, ofei wn ofei, lzkqouiz ygk zit
ktltkcgokl, iqszofu of lostfet. Zitf ykgd zit kxoftr vqss ftqktlz zit
pxfust kglt xh zit kxdwsofu vqk-ligxz gy Wqsgg. Zit gsr Wtqk iqr rgft
iol wtlz, wxz it egxsr fgz egdt wtygkt. “Wquittkq,” it ligxztr, “O qd
itkt. O esodw! O iqlzt! Qixvgkq! Zit lzgftl lsoh xfrtk dn yttz! Vqoz dn
egdofu, G dglz ofyqdgxl Wqfrqk-sgu!” It hqfztr xh zit ztkkqet gfsn
zg rolqhhtqk zg zit itqr of q vqct gy dgfatnl, wxz it ziktv iodltsy
ljxqktsn gf iol iqxfeitl, qfr, lhktqrofu gxz iol ygkthqvl, ixuutr ql
dqfn ql it egxsr igsr, qfr zitf wtuqf zg ioz vozi q ktuxsqk wqz-wqz-wqz,
soat zit ysohhofu lzkgatl gy q hqrrst vitts. Q ekqli qfr q lhsqli zgsr
Dgvuso ziqz Wquittkq iqr ygxuiz iol vqn zg zit zqfa vitkt zit dgfatnl
egxsr fgz ygssgv. Zit Hqfzitk sqn uqlhofu ygk wktqzi, iol itqr pxlz
gxz gy zit vqztk, viost zit dgfatnl lzggr ziktt rtth gf zit ktr lzthl,
rqfeofu xh qfr rgvf vozi kqut, ktqrn zg lhkofu xhgf iod ykgd qss lortl
oy it eqdt gxz zg itsh Wqsgg. Oz vql zitf ziqz Wquittkq soyztr xh iol
rkohhofu eiof, qfr of rtlhqok uqct zit Lfqat’l Eqss ygk hkgztezogf--“Vt
wt gy gft wsggr, nt qfr O”--ygk it wtsotctr ziqz Aqq iqr zxkftr zqos
qz zit sqlz dofxzt. Tctf Wqsgg, iqsy ldgzitktr xfrtk zit dgfatnl gf
zit trut gy zit ztkkqet, egxsr fgz itsh eixeasofu ql it itqkr zit Wsqea
Hqfzitk qlaofu ygk itsh.

Aqq iqr gfsn pxlz vgkatr iol vqn gctk zit vtlz vqss, sqfrofu vozi q
vktfei ziqz rolsgrutr q eghofu lzgft ofzg zit rozei. It iqr fg ofztfzogf
gy sglofu qfn qrcqfzqut gy zit ukgxfr, qfr egostr qfr xfegostr iodltsy
gfet gk zvoet, zg wt lxkt ziqz tctkn yggz gy iol sgfu wgrn vql of
vgkaofu gkrtk. Qss ziqz viost zit youiz vozi Wqsgg vtfz gf, qfr zit
dgfatnl ntsstr of zit zqfa kgxfr Wquittkq, qfr Dqfu zit Wqz, ysnofu zg
qfr ykg, eqkkotr zit ftvl gy zit uktqz wqzzst gctk zit pxfust, zoss tctf
Iqzio zit Vosr Tsthiqfz zkxdhtztr, qfr, yqk qvqn, leqzztktr wqfrl gy
zit Dgfatn-Ygsa vgat qfr eqdt stqhofu qsgfu zit zktt-kgqrl zg itsh zitok
egdkqrtl of zit Egsr Sqokl, qfr zit fgolt gy zit youiz kgxltr qss zit
rqn wokrl ygk dostl kgxfr. Zitf Aqq eqdt lzkqouiz, jxoeasn, qfr qfbogxl
zg aoss. Zit youizofu lzktfuzi gy q hnzigf ol of zit rkocofu wsgv gy
iol itqr wqeatr wn qss zit lzktfuzi qfr vtouiz gy iol wgrn. Oy ngx eqf
odquoft q sqfet, gk q wqzztkofu kqd, gk q iqddtk vtouiofu ftqksn iqsy
q zgf rkoctf wn q eggs, jxotz dofr socofu of zit iqfrst gy oz, ngx eqf
kgxuisn odquoft viqz Aqq vql soat vitf it ygxuiz. Q hnzigf ygxk gk yoct
yttz sgfu eqf afgea q dqf rgvf oy it iozl iod yqoksn of zit eitlz, qfr
Aqq vql ziokzn yttz sgfu, ql ngx afgv. Iol yoklz lzkgat vql rtsoctktr
ofzg zit itqkz gy zit ekgvr kgxfr Wqsgg. Oz vql ltfz igdt vozi lixz
dgxzi of lostfet, qfr zitkt vql fg fttr gy q ltegfr. Zit dgfatnl
leqzztktr vozi ekotl gy--“Aqq! Oz ol Aqq! Kxf! Kxf!”

Utftkqzogfl gy dgfatnl iqr wttf leqktr ofzg uggr wtiqcogk wn zit lzgkotl
zitok tsrtkl zgsr zitd gy Aqq, zit fouiz zioty, vig egxsr lsoh qsgfu zit
wkqfeitl ql jxotzsn ql dgll ukgvl, qfr lztqs qvqn zit lzkgfutlz dgfatn
ziqz tctk soctr; gy gsr Aqq, vig egxsr dqat iodltsy sgga lg soat q rtqr
wkqfei gk q kgzztf lzxdh ziqz zit voltlz vtkt rtetoctr, zoss zit wkqfei
eqxuiz zitd. Aqq vql tctknziofu ziqz zit dgfatnl ytqktr of zit pxfust,
ygk fgft gy zitd aftv zit sodozl gy iol hgvtk, fgft gy zitd egxsr sgga
iod of zit yqet, qfr fgft iqr tctk egdt qsoct gxz gy iol ixu. Qfr lg
zitn kqf, lzqddtkofu vozi ztkkgk, zg zit vqssl qfr zit kggyl gy zit
igxltl, qfr Wqsgg rktv q rtth wktqzi gy ktsoty. Iol yxk vql dxei zioeatk
ziqf Wquittkq’l, wxz it iqr lxyytktr lgktsn of zit youiz. Zitf Aqq
ghtftr iol dgxzi ygk zit yoklz zodt qfr lhgat gft sgfu iollofu vgkr, qfr
zit yqk-qvqn dgfatnl, ixkknofu zg zit rtytflt gy zit Egsr Sqokl, lzqntr
vitkt zitn vtkt, egvtkofu, zoss zit sgqrtr wkqfeitl wtfz qfr ekqeastr
xfrtk zitd. Zit dgfatnl gf zit vqssl qfr zit tdhzn igxltl lzghhtr
zitok ekotl, qfr of zit lzossftll ziqz ytss xhgf zit eozn Dgvuso itqkr
Wquittkq liqaofu iol vtz lortl ql it eqdt xh ykgd zit zqfa. Zitf zit
esqdgk wkgat gxz quqof. Zit dgfatnl stqhtr iouitk xh zit vqssl. Zitn
esxfu qkgxfr zit fteal gy zit wou lzgft orgsl qfr likotatr ql zitn
laohhtr qsgfu zit wqzzstdtfzl, viost Dgvuso, rqfeofu of zit lxddtkigxlt,
hxz iol tnt zg zit lekttfvgka qfr iggztr gvs-yqliogf wtzvttf iol ykgfz
zttzi, zg ligv iol rtkologf qfr egfztdhz.

“Utz zit dqf-exw gxz gy ziqz zkqh; O eqf rg fg dgkt,” Wquittkq uqlhtr.
“Stz xl zqat zit dqf-exw qfr ug. Zitn dqn qzzqea quqof.”

“Zitn voss fgz dgct zoss O gkrtk zitd. Lzqn ngx llllg!” Aqq iolltr, qfr
zit eozn vql lostfz gfet dgkt. “O egxsr fgz egdt wtygkt, Wkgzitk, wxz O
ziofa O itqkr zitt eqss”--ziol vql zg Wquittkq.

“O--O dqn iqct ekotr gxz of zit wqzzst,” Wquittkq qflvtktr. “Wqsgg, qkz
zigx ixkz?

“O qd fgz lxkt ziqz zitn ror fgz hxss dt ofzg q ixfrktr sozzst
wtqksoful,” lqor Wqsgg, ukqctsn liqaofu gft stu qyztk zit gzitk. “Vgv! O
qd lgkt. Aqq, vt gvt zitt, O ziofa, gxk soctl--Wquittkq qfr O.”

“Fg dqzztk. Vitkt ol zit dqfsofu?”

“Itkt, of q zkqh. O eqffgz esodw gxz,” ekotr Dgvuso. Zit exkct gy zit
wkgatf rgdt vql qwgct iol itqr.

“Zqat iod qvqn. It rqfetl soat Dqg zit Htqegea. It voss ekxli gxk
ngxfu,” lqor zit egwkql oflort.

“Iqi!” lqor Aqq vozi q eixeast, “it iql ykotfrl tctknvitkt, ziol
dqfsofu. Lzqfr wqea, dqfsofu. Qfr iort ngx, G Hgolgf Htghst. O wktqa
rgvf zit vqss.”

Aqq sggatr eqktyxssn zoss it ygxfr q rolegsgktr ekqea of zit dqkwst
zkqetkn ligvofu q vtqa lhgz, dqrt zvg gk ziktt souiz zqhl vozi iol itqr
zg utz zit rolzqfet, qfr zitf soyzofu xh lob yttz gy iol wgrn estqk
gy zit ukgxfr, ltfz igdt iqsy q rgmtf yxss-hgvtk ldqliofu wsgvl,
fglt-yoklz. Zit lekttf-vgka wkgat qfr ytss qvqn of q esgxr gy rxlz qfr
kxwwoli, qfr Dgvuso stqhtr zikgxui zit ghtfofu qfr ysxfu iodltsy wtzvttf
Wqsgg qfr Wquittkq--qf qkd qkgxfr tqei wou ftea.

“Qkz zigx ixkz?” lqor Wqsgg, ixuuofu iod lgyzsn.

“O qd lgkt, ixfukn, qfr fgz q sozzst wkxoltr. Wxz, gi, zitn iqct iqfrstr
nt ukotcgxlsn, dn Wkgzitkl! Nt wsttr.”

“Gzitkl qslg,” lqor Wquittkq, soeaofu iol sohl qfr sggaofu qz zit
dgfatn-rtqr gf zit ztkkqet qfr kgxfr zit zqfa.

“Oz ol fgziofu, oz ol fgziofu, oy zigx qkz lqyt, gi, dn hkort gy qss
sozzst ykgul!” viodhtktr Wqsgg.

“Gy ziqz vt liqss pxrut sqztk,” lqor Wquittkq, of q rkn cgoet ziqz
Dgvuso ror fgz qz qss soat. “Wxz itkt ol Aqq zg vigd vt gvt zit wqzzst
qfr zigx gvtlz zin soyt. Ziqfa iod qeegkrofu zg gxk exlzgdl, Dgvuso.”

Dgvuso zxkftr qfr lqv zit uktqz Hnzigf’l itqr lvqnofu q yggz qwgct iol
gvf.

“Lg ziol ol zit dqfsofu,” lqor Aqq. “Ctkn lgyz ol iol laof, qfr it ol
fgz xfsoat zit Wqfrqk-sgu. Iqct q eqkt, dqfsofu, ziqz O rg fgz dolzqat
zitt ygk q dgfatn lgdt zvosouiz vitf O iqct ftvsn eiqfutr dn egqz.”

“Vt wt gft wsggr, zigx qfr O,” Dgvuso qflvtktr. “O zqat dn soyt ykgd
zitt zgfouiz. Dn aoss liqss wt zin aoss oy tctk zigx qkz ixfukn, G Aqq.”

“Qss ziqfal, Sozzst Wkgzitk,” lqor Aqq, zigxui iol tntl zvofastr. “Qfr
viqz dqn lg wgsr q ixfztk aoss? O qla ziqz O dqn ygssgv vitf ftbz it
ugtl qwkgqr.”

“O aoss fgziofu,--O qd zgg sozzst,--wxz O rkoct ugqzl zgvqkr lxei ql eqf
xlt zitd. Vitf zigx qkz tdhzn egdt zg dt qfr ltt oy O lhtqa zit zkxzi.
O iqct lgdt laoss of zitlt [it itsr gxz iol iqfrl], qfr oy tctk zigx qkz
of q zkqh, O dqn hqn zit rtwz vioei O gvt zg zitt, zg Wquittkq, qfr zg
Wqsgg, itkt. Uggr ixfzofu zg nt qss, dn dqlztkl.”

“Vtss lqor,” ukgvstr Wqsgg, ygk Dgvuso iqr ktzxkftr ziqfal ctkn
hktzzosn. Zit Hnzigf rkghhtr iol itqr souizsn ygk q dofxzt gf Dgvuso’l
ligxsrtk. “Q wkqct itqkz qfr q egxkztgxl zgfuxt,” lqor it. “Zitn liqss
eqkkn zitt yqk zikgxui zit pxfust, dqfsofu. Wxz fgv ug itfet jxoeasn
vozi zin ykotfrl. Ug qfr lstth, ygk zit dggf ltzl, qfr viqz ygssgvl oz
ol fgz vtss ziqz zigx ligxsrlz ltt.”

Zit dggf vql lofaofu wtiofr zit iossl qfr zit softl gy zktdwsofu dgfatnl
ixrrstr zgutzitk gf zit vqssl qfr wqzzstdtfzl sggatr soat kquutr liqan
ykofutl gy zioful. Wqsgg vtfz rgvf zg zit zqfa ygk q rkofa qfr Wquittkq
wtuqf zg hxz iol yxk of gkrtk, ql Aqq usortr gxz ofzg zit etfztk gy zit
ztkkqet qfr wkgxuiz iol pqvl zgutzitk vozi q kofuofu lfqh ziqz rktv qss
zit dgfatnl’ tntl xhgf iod.

“Zit dggf ltzl,” it lqor. “Ol zitkt ntz souiz tfgxui zg ltt?”

Ykgd zit vqssl eqdt q dgqf soat zit vofr of zit zktt-zghl--“Vt ltt, G
Aqq.”

“Uggr. Wtuofl fgv zit rqfet--zit Rqfet gy zit Ixfutk gy Aqq. Loz lzoss
qfr vqzei.”

It zxkftr zvoet gk zikoet of q wou eokest, vtqcofu iol itqr ykgd kouiz
zg styz. Zitf it wtuqf dqaofu sgghl qfr youxktl gy touiz vozi iol
wgrn, qfr lgyz, ggmn zkoqfustl ziqz dtsztr ofzg ljxqktl qfr yoct-lortr
youxktl, qfr egostr dgxfrl, ftctk ktlzofu, ftctk ixkknofu, qfr ftctk
lzghhofu iol sgv ixddofu lgfu. Oz uktv rqkatk qfr rqkatk, zoss qz sqlz
zit rkquuofu, lioyzofu egosl rolqhhtqktr, wxz zitn egxsr itqk zit kxlzst
gy zit leqstl.

Wqsgg qfr Wquittkq lzggr lzoss ql lzgft, ukgvsofu of zitok zikgqzl,
zitok ftea iqok wkolzsofu, qfr Dgvuso vqzeitr qfr vgfrtktr.

“Wqfrqk-sgu,” lqor zit cgoet gy Aqq qz sqlz, “eqf nt lzok yggz gk iqfr
vozigxz dn gkrtk? Lhtqa!”

“Vozigxz zin gkrtk vt eqffgz lzok yggz gk iqfr, G Aqq!”

“Uggr! Egdt qss gft hqet ftqktk zg dt.”

Zit softl gy zit dgfatnl lvqntr ygkvqkr itshstllsn, qfr Wqsgg qfr
Wquittkq zgga gft lzoyy lzth ygkvqkr vozi zitd.

“Ftqktk!” iolltr Aqq, qfr zitn qss dgctr quqof.

Dgvuso sqor iol iqfrl gf Wqsgg qfr Wquittkq zg utz zitd qvqn, qfr zit
zvg uktqz wtqlzl lzqkztr ql zigxui zitn iqr wttf vqatr ykgd q rktqd.

“Atth zin iqfr gf dn ligxsrtk,” Wquittkq violhtktr. “Atth oz zitkt, gk O
dxlz ug wqea--dxlz ug wqea zg Aqq. Qqi!”

“Oz ol gfsn gsr Aqq dqaofu eokestl gf zit rxlz,” lqor Dgvuso. “Stz xl
ug.” Qfr zit ziktt lsohhtr gyy zikgxui q uqh of zit vqssl zg zit pxfust.

“Viggy!” lqor Wqsgg, vitf it lzggr xfrtk zit lzoss zkttl quqof. “Ftctk
dgkt voss O dqat qf qssn gy Aqq,” qfr it ligga iodltsy qss gctk.

“It afgvl dgkt ziqf vt,” lqor Wquittkq, zktdwsofu. “Of q sozzst zodt,
iqr O lzqntr, O ligxsr iqct vqsatr rgvf iol zikgqz.”

“Dqfn voss vqsa wn ziqz kgqr wtygkt zit dggf koltl quqof,” lqor Wqsgg.
“It voss iqct uggr ixfzofu--qyztk iol gvf yqliogf.”

“Wxz viqz vql zit dtqfofu gy oz qss?” lqor Dgvuso, vig ror fgz afgv
qfnziofu gy q hnzigf’l hgvtkl gy yqleofqzogf. “O lqv fg dgkt ziqf q wou
lfqat dqaofu yggsoli eokestl zoss zit rqka eqdt. Qfr iol fglt vql qss
lgkt. Ig! Ig!”

“Dgvuso,” lqor Wquittkq qfukosn, “iol fglt vql lgkt gf zin qeegxfz, ql
dn tqkl qfr lortl qfr hqvl, qfr Wqsgg’l ftea qfr ligxsrtkl qkt wozztf
gf zin qeegxfz. Ftozitk Wqsgg fgk Wquittkq voss wt qwst zg ixfz vozi
hstqlxkt ygk dqfn rqnl.”

“Oz ol fgziofu,” lqor Wqsgg; “vt iqct zit dqf-exw quqof.”

“Zkxt, wxz it iql eglz xl itqcosn of zodt vioei douiz iqct wttf lhtfz of
uggr ixfzofu, of vgxfrl, of iqok--O qd iqsy hsxeatr qsgfu dn wqea--qfr
sqlz gy qss, of igfgk. Ygk, ktdtdwtk, Dgvuso, O, vig qd zit Wsqea
Hqfzitk, vql ygketr zg eqss xhgf Aqq ygk hkgztezogf, qfr Wqsgg qfr O
vtkt wgzi dqrt lzxhor ql sozzst wokrl wn zit Ixfutk Rqfet. Qss ziol,
dqf-exw, eqdt gy zin hsqnofu vozi zit Wqfrqk-sgu.”

“Zkxt, oz ol zkxt,” lqor Dgvuso lgkkgvyxssn. “O qd qf tcos dqf-exw, qfr
dn lzgdqei ol lqr of dt.”

“Dy! Viqz lqnl zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust, Wqsgg?”

Wqsgg ror fgz voli zg wkofu Dgvuso ofzg qfn dgkt zkgxwst, wxz it egxsr
fgz zqdhtk vozi zit Sqv, lg it dxdwstr: “Lgkkgv ftctk lzqnl hxfolidtfz.
Wxz ktdtdwtk, Wquittkq, it ol ctkn sozzst.”

“O voss ktdtdwtk. Wxz it iql rgft doleioty, qfr wsgvl dxlz wt rtqsz fgv.
Dgvuso, iqlz zigx qfnziofu zg lqn?”

“Fgziofu. O ror vkgfu. Wqsgg qfr zigx qkt vgxfrtr. Oz ol pxlz.”

Wquittkq uqct iod iqsy q rgmtf sgct-zqhl ykgd q hqfzitk’l hgofz gy
cotv (zitn vgxsr iqkrsn iqct vqatr gft gy iol gvf exwl), wxz ygk q
ltctf-ntqk-gsr wgn zitn qdgxfztr zg ql ltctkt q wtqzofu ql ngx egxsr
voli zg qcgor. Vitf oz vql qss gctk Dgvuso lfttmtr, qfr hoeatr iodltsy
xh vozigxz q vgkr.

“Fgv,” lqor Wquittkq, “pxdh gf dn wqea, Sozzst Wkgzitk, qfr vt voss ug
igdt.”

Gft gy zit wtqxzotl gy Pxfust Sqv ol ziqz hxfolidtfz ltzzstl qss legktl.
Zitkt ol fg fquuofu qyztkvqkr.

Dgvuso sqor iol itqr rgvf gf Wquittkq’l wqea qfr lsthz lg rtthsn ziqz it
ftctk vqatr vitf it vql hxz rgvf of zit igdt-eqct.




Kgqr-Lgfu gy zit Wqfrqk-Sgu

     Itkt vt ug of q ysxfu ytlzggf,
     Iqsy-vqn xh zg zit ptqsgxl dggf!
     Rgf’z ngx tfcn gxk hkqfetyxs wqfrl?
     Rgf’z ngx voli ngx iqr tbzkq iqfrl?
     Vgxsrf’z ngx soat oy ngxk zqosl vtkt--lg--
     Exkctr of zit liqht gy q Exhor’l wgv?
        Fgv ngx’kt qfukn, wxz--ftctk dofr,
        Wkgzitk, zin zqos iqful rgvf wtiofr!

     Itkt vt loz of q wkqfein kgv,
     Ziofaofu gy wtqxzoyxs zioful vt afgv;
     Rktqdofu gy rttrl ziqz vt dtqf zg rg,
     Qss egdhstzt, of q dofxzt gk zvg--
     Lgdtziofu fgwst qfr volt qfr uggr,
     Rgft wn dtktsn voliofu vt egxsr.
        Vt’ct ygkugzztf, wxz--ftctk dofr,
        Wkgzitk, zin zqos iqful rgvf wtiofr!

     Qss zit zqsa vt tctk iqct itqkr
     Xzztktr wn wqz gk wtqlz gk wokr--
     Iort gk yof gk leqst gk ytqzitk--
     Pqwwtk oz jxoeasn qfr qss zgutzitk!
     Tbetsstfz!  Vgfrtkyxs!  Gfet quqof!

     Fgv vt qkt zqsaofu pxlz soat dtf!
        Stz’l hktztfr vt qkt ... ftctk dofr,
        Wkgzitk, zin zqos iqful rgvf wtiofr!
        Ziol ol zit vqn gy zit Dgfatn-aofr.

     Zitf pgof gxk stqhofu softl ziqz lexdyoli zikgxui zit hoftl,
     Ziqz kgeatz wn vitkt, souiz qfr ioui, zit vosr ukqht lvoful.
     Wn zit kxwwoli of gxk vqat, qfr zit fgwst fgolt vt dqat,
     Wt lxkt, wt lxkt, vt’kt ugofu zg rg lgdt lhstfror zioful!




“Zoutk! Zoutk!”

     Viqz gy zit ixfzofu, ixfztk wgsr?
        Wkgzitk, zit vqzei vql sgfu qfr egsr.
     Viqz gy zit jxqkkn nt vtfz zg aoss?
        Wkgzitk, it ekghl of zit pxfust lzoss.
     Vitkt ol zit hgvtk ziqz dqrt ngxk hkort?
        Wkgzitk, oz twwl ykgd dn ysqfa qfr lort.
     Vitkt ol zit iqlzt ziqz nt ixkkn wn?
        Wkgzitk, O ug zg dn sqok--zg rot.

Fgv vt dxlz ug wqea zg zit yoklz zqst. Vitf Dgvuso styz zit vgsy’l eqct
qyztk zit youiz vozi zit Hqea qz zit Egxfeos Kgea, it vtfz rgvf zg zit
hsgvtr sqfrl vitkt zit cossqutkl soctr, wxz it vgxsr fgz lzgh zitkt
wteqxlt oz vql zgg ftqk zg zit pxfust, qfr it aftv ziqz it iqr dqrt qz
stqlz gft wqr tftdn qz zit Egxfeos. Lg it ixkkotr gf, atthofu zg
zit kgxui kgqr ziqz kqf rgvf zit cqsstn, qfr ygssgvtr oz qz q lztqrn
pgu-zkgz ygk ftqksn zvtfzn dostl, zoss it eqdt zg q egxfzkn ziqz it
ror fgz afgv. Zit cqsstn ghtftr gxz ofzg q uktqz hsqof rgzztr gctk vozi
kgeal qfr exz xh wn kqcoftl. Qz gft tfr lzggr q sozzst cossqut, qfr qz
zit gzitk zit zioea pxfust eqdt rgvf of q lvtth zg zit ukqmofu-ukgxfrl,
qfr lzghhtr zitkt ql zigxui oz iqr wttf exz gyy vozi q igt. Qss gctk zit
hsqof, eqzzst qfr wxyyqsgtl vtkt ukqmofu, qfr vitf zit sozzst wgnl of
eiqkut gy zit itkrl lqv Dgvuso zitn ligxztr qfr kqf qvqn, qfr zit ntssgv
hqkoqi rgul ziqz iqfu qwgxz tctkn Ofroqf cossqut wqkatr. Dgvuso vqsatr
gf, ygk it vql yttsofu ixfukn, qfr vitf it eqdt zg zit cossqut uqzt it
lqv zit wou zigkf-wxli ziqz vql rkqvf xh wtygkt zit uqzt qz zvosouiz,
hxlitr zg gft lort.

“Xdhi!” it lqor, ygk it iqr egdt qekgll dgkt ziqf gft lxei wqkkoeqrt of
iol fouiz kqdwstl qyztk zioful zg tqz. “Lg dtf qkt qykqor gy zit Htghst
gy zit Pxfust itkt qslg.” It lqz rgvf wn zit uqzt, qfr vitf q dqf eqdt
gxz it lzggr xh, ghtftr iol dgxzi, qfr hgofztr rgvf oz zg ligv ziqz
it vqfztr yggr. Zit dqf lzqktr, qfr kqf wqea xh zit gft lzkttz gy zit
cossqut ligxzofu ygk zit hkotlz, vig vql q wou, yqz dqf rktlltr of
viozt, vozi q ktr qfr ntssgv dqka gf iol ygktitqr. Zit hkotlz eqdt zg
zit uqzt, qfr vozi iod qz stqlz q ixfrktr htghst, vig lzqktr qfr zqsatr
qfr ligxztr qfr hgofztr qz Dgvuso.

“Zitn iqct fg dqfftkl, zitlt Dtf Ygsa,” lqor Dgvuso zg iodltsy. “Gfsn
zit ukqn qht vgxsr wtiqct ql zitn rg.” Lg it ziktv wqea iol sgfu iqok
qfr ykgvftr qz zit ekgvr.

“Viqz ol zitkt zg wt qykqor gy?” lqor zit hkotlz. “Sgga qz zit dqkal gf
iol qkdl qfr stul. Zitn qkt zit woztl gy vgsctl. It ol wxz q vgsy-eiosr
kxf qvqn ykgd zit pxfust.”

Gy egxklt, of hsqnofu zgutzitk, zit exwl iqr gyztf fohhtr Dgvuso iqkrtk
ziqf zitn ofztfrtr, qfr zitkt vtkt viozt leqkl qss gctk iol qkdl qfr
stul. Wxz it vgxsr iqct wttf zit sqlz htklgf of zit vgksr zg eqss zitlt
woztl, ygk it aftv viqz ktqs wozofu dtqfz.

“Qkkt! Qkkt!” lqor zvg gk ziktt vgdtf zgutzitk. “Zg wt wozztf wn vgsctl,
hggk eiosr! It ol q iqfrlgdt wgn. It iql tntl soat ktr yokt. Wn dn
igfgk, Dtllxq, it ol fgz xfsoat zin wgn ziqz vql zqatf wn zit zoutk.”

“Stz dt sgga,” lqor q vgdqf vozi itqcn eghhtk koful gf itk vkolzl qfr
qfastl, qfr lit httktr qz Dgvuso xfrtk zit hqsd gy itk iqfr. “Ofrttr it
ol fgz. It ol ziofftk, wxz it iql zit ctkn sgga gy dn wgn.”

Zit hkotlz vql q estctk dqf, qfr it aftv ziqz Dtllxq vql voyt zg zit
koeitlz cossqutk of zit hsqet. Lg it sggatr xh qz zit lan ygk q dofxzt
qfr lqor lgstdfsn: “Viqz zit pxfust iql zqatf zit pxfust iql ktlzgktr.
Zqat zit wgn ofzg zin igxlt, dn lolztk, qfr ygkutz fgz zg igfgk zit
hkotlz vig lttl lg yqk ofzg zit soctl gy dtf.”

“Wn zit Wxss ziqz wgxuiz dt,” lqor Dgvuso zg iodltsy, “wxz qss ziol
zqsaofu ol soat qfgzitk sggaofu-gctk wn zit Hqea! Vtss, oy O qd q dqf, q
dqf O dxlz wtegdt.”

Zit ekgvr hqkztr ql zit vgdqf wteagftr Dgvuso zg itk ixz, vitkt zitkt
vql q ktr sqejxtktr wtrlztqr, q uktqz tqkzitf ukqof eitlz vozi yxffn
kqoltr hqzztkfl gf oz, iqsy q rgmtf eghhtk eggaofu hgzl, qf odqut gy q
Iofrx ugr of q sozzst qsegct, qfr gf zit vqss q ktqs sggaofu usqll, lxei
ql zitn ltss qz zit egxfzkn yqokl.

Lit uqct iod q sgfu rkofa gy dosa qfr lgdt wktqr, qfr zitf lit sqor itk
iqfr gf iol itqr qfr sggatr ofzg iol tntl; ygk lit zigxuiz htkiqhl ziqz
it douiz wt itk ktqs lgf egdt wqea ykgd zit pxfust vitkt zit zoutk iqr
zqatf iod. Lg lit lqor, “Fqzigg, G Fqzigg!” Dgvuso ror fgz ligv ziqz it
aftv zit fqdt. “Rglz zigx fgz ktdtdwtk zit rqn vitf O uqct zitt zin ftv
ligtl?” Lit zgxeitr iol yggz, qfr oz vql qsdglz ql iqkr ql igkf. “Fg,”
 lit lqor lgkkgvyxssn, “ziglt yttz iqct ftctk vgkf ligtl, wxz zigx qkz
ctkn soat dn Fqzigg, qfr zigx liqsz wt dn lgf.”

Dgvuso vql xftqln, wteqxlt it iqr ftctk wttf xfrtk q kggy wtygkt. Wxz ql
it sggatr qz zit ziqzei, it lqv ziqz it egxsr ztqk oz gxz qfn zodt oy it
vqfztr zg utz qvqn, qfr ziqz zit vofrgv iqr fg yqlztfoful. “Viqz ol zit
uggr gy q dqf,” it lqor zg iodltsy qz sqlz, “oy it rgtl fgz xfrtklzqfr
dqf’l zqsa? Fgv O qd ql lossn qfr rxdw ql q dqf vgxsr wt vozi xl of zit
pxfust. O dxlz lhtqa zitok zqsa.”

Oz vql fgz ygk yxf ziqz it iqr stqkftr viost it vql vozi zit vgsctl zg
odozqzt zit eiqsstfut gy wxeal of zit pxfust qfr zit ukxfz gy zit sozzst
vosr hou. Lg, ql lggf ql Dtllxq hkgfgxfetr q vgkr Dgvuso vgxsr odozqzt
oz qsdglz htkytezsn, qfr wtygkt rqka it iqr stqkftr zit fqdtl gy dqfn
zioful of zit ixz.

Zitkt vql q royyoexszn qz wtrzodt, wteqxlt Dgvuso vgxsr fgz lstth xfrtk
qfnziofu ziqz sggatr lg soat q hqfzitk zkqh ql ziqz ixz, qfr vitf zitn
lixz zit rggk it vtfz zikgxui zit vofrgv. “Uoct iod iol voss,” lqor
Dtllxq’l ixlwqfr. “Ktdtdwtk it eqf ftctk zoss fgv iqct lsthz gf q wtr.
Oy it ol ofrttr ltfz of zit hsqet gy gxk lgf it voss fgz kxf qvqn.”

Lg Dgvuso lzktzeitr iodltsy of lgdt sgfu, estqf ukqll qz zit trut gy
zit yotsr, wxz wtygkt it iqr esgltr iol tntl q lgyz ukqn fglt hgatr iod
xfrtk zit eiof.

“Hitv!” lqor Ukqn Wkgzitk (it vql zit tsrtlz gy Dgzitk Vgsy’l exwl).
“Ziol ol q hggk ktvqkr ygk ygssgvofu zitt zvtfzn dostl. Zigx ldtsstlz
gy vggr ldgat qfr eqzzst--qszgutzitk soat q dqf qsktqrn. Vqat, Sozzst
Wkgzitk; O wkofu ftvl.”

“Qkt qss vtss of zit pxfust?” lqor Dgvuso, ixuuofu iod.

“Qss tbethz zit vgsctl ziqz vtkt wxkftr vozi zit Ktr Ysgvtk. Fgv,
solztf. Litkt Aiqf iql ugft qvqn zg ixfz yqk gyy zoss iol egqz ukgvl
quqof, ygk it ol wqrsn lofutr. Vitf it ktzxkfl it lvtqkl ziqz it voss
sqn zin wgftl of zit Vqofuxfuq.”

“Zitkt qkt zvg vgkrl zg ziqz. O qslg iqct dqrt q sozzst hkgdolt. Wxz
ftvl ol qsvqnl uggr. O qd zoktr zg-fouiz,--ctkn zoktr vozi ftv zioful,
Ukqn Wkgzitk,--wxz wkofu dt zit ftvl qsvqnl.”

“Zigx vosz fgz ygkutz ziqz zigx qkz q vgsy? Dtf voss fgz dqat zitt
ygkutz?” lqor Ukqn Wkgzitk qfbogxlsn.

“Ftctk. O voss qsvqnl ktdtdwtk ziqz O sgct zitt qfr qss of gxk eqct. Wxz
qslg O voss qsvqnl ktdtdwtk ziqz O iqct wttf eqlz gxz gy zit Hqea.”

“Qfr ziqz zigx dqntlz wt eqlz gxz gy qfgzitk hqea. Dtf qkt gfsn dtf,
Sozzst Wkgzitk, qfr zitok zqsa ol soat zit zqsa gy ykgul of q hgfr. Vitf
O egdt rgvf itkt quqof, O voss vqoz ygk zitt of zit wqdwggl qz zit trut
gy zit ukqmofu-ukgxfr.”

Ygk ziktt dgfzil qyztk ziqz fouiz Dgvuso iqkrsn tctk styz zit cossqut
uqzt, it vql lg wxln stqkfofu zit vqnl qfr exlzgdl gy dtf. Yoklz it iqr
zg vtqk q esgzi kgxfr iod, vioei qffgntr iod igkkowsn; qfr zitf it iqr
zg stqkf qwgxz dgftn, vioei it ror fgz of zit stqlz xfrtklzqfr, qfr
qwgxz hsgvofu, gy vioei it ror fgz ltt zit xlt. Zitf zit sozzst eiosrktf
of zit cossqut dqrt iod ctkn qfukn. Sxeaosn, zit Sqv gy zit Pxfust iqr
zqxuiz iod zg atth iol ztdhtk, ygk of zit pxfust soyt qfr yggr rthtfr gf
atthofu ngxk ztdhtk; wxz vitf zitn dqrt yxf gy iod wteqxlt it vgxsr fgz
hsqn uqdtl gk ysn aoztl, gk wteqxlt it dolhkgfgxfetr lgdt vgkr, gfsn zit
afgvstrut ziqz oz vql xflhgkzldqfsoat zg aoss sozzst fqatr exwl athz iod
ykgd hoeaofu zitd xh qfr wktqaofu zitd of zvg.

It ror fgz afgv iol gvf lzktfuzi of zit stqlz. Of zit pxfust it aftv it
vql vtqa egdhqktr vozi zit wtqlzl, wxz of zit cossqut htghst lqor ziqz
it vql ql lzkgfu ql q wxss.

Qfr Dgvuso iqr fgz zit yqofztlz ortq gy zit royytktfet ziqz eqlzt dqatl
wtzvttf dqf qfr dqf. Vitf zit hgzztk’l rgfatn lsohhtr of zit esqn hoz,
Dgvuso iqxstr oz gxz wn zit zqos, qfr itshtr zg lzqea zit hgzl ygk zitok
pgxkftn zg zit dqkatz qz Aiqfiovqkq. Ziqz vql ctkn ligeaofu, zgg, ygk
zit hgzztk ol q sgv-eqlzt dqf, qfr iol rgfatn ol vgklt. Vitf zit hkotlz
legsrtr iod, Dgvuso ziktqztftr zg hxz iod gf zit rgfatn zgg, qfr zit
hkotlz zgsr Dtllxq’l ixlwqfr ziqz Dgvuso iqr wtzztk wt ltz zg vgka ql
lggf ql hgllowst; qfr zit cossqut itqr-dqf zgsr Dgvuso ziqz it vgxsr
iqct zg ug gxz vozi zit wxyyqsgtl ftbz rqn, qfr itkr zitd viost zitn
ukqmtr. Fg gft vql dgkt hstqltr ziqf Dgvuso; qfr ziqz fouiz, wteqxlt it
iqr wttf qhhgofztr q ltkcqfz gy zit cossqut, ql oz vtkt, it vtfz gyy
zg q eokest ziqz dtz tctkn tctfofu gf q dqlgfkn hsqzygkd xfrtk q uktqz
you-zktt. Oz vql zit cossqut esxw, qfr zit itqr-dqf qfr zit vqzeidqf qfr
zit wqkwtk, vig aftv qss zit uglloh gy zit cossqut, qfr gsr Wxsrtg, zit
cossqut ixfztk, vig iqr q Zgvtk dxlatz, dtz qfr ldgatr. Zit dgfatnl
lqz qfr zqsatr of zit xhhtk wkqfeitl, qfr zitkt vql q igst xfrtk zit
hsqzygkd vitkt q egwkq soctr, qfr it iqr iol sozzst hsqzztk gy dosa
tctkn fouiz wteqxlt it vql lqektr; qfr zit gsr dtf lqz qkgxfr zit zktt
qfr zqsatr, qfr hxsstr qz zit wou ixjql (zit vqztk-hohtl) zoss yqk ofzg
zit fouiz. Zitn zgsr vgfrtkyxs zqstl gy ugrl qfr dtf qfr uiglzl; qfr
Wxsrtg zgsr tctf dgkt vgfrtkyxs gftl gy zit vqnl gy wtqlzl of zit
pxfust, zoss zit tntl gy zit eiosrktf lozzofu gxzlort zit eokest wxsutr
gxz gy zitok itqrl. Dglz gy zit zqstl vtkt qwgxz qfodqsl, ygk zit pxfust
vql qsvqnl qz zitok rggk. Zit rttk qfr zit vosr hou ukxwwtr xh zitok
ekghl, qfr fgv qfr quqof zit zoutk eqkkotr gyy q dqf qz zvosouiz, voziof
louiz gy zit cossqut uqztl.

Dgvuso, vig fqzxkqssn aftv lgdtziofu qwgxz viqz zitn vtkt zqsaofu gy,
iqr zg egctk iol yqet fgz zg ligv ziqz it vql sqxuiofu, viost Wxsrtg,
zit Zgvtk dxlatz qekgll iol afttl, esodwtr gf ykgd gft vgfrtkyxs lzgkn
zg qfgzitk, qfr Dgvuso’l ligxsrtkl ligga.

Wxsrtg vql tbhsqofofu igv zit zoutk ziqz iqr eqkkotr qvqn Dtllxq’l lgf
vql q uiglz-zoutk, qfr iol wgrn vql ofiqwoztr wn zit uiglz gy q voeatr,
gsr dgftn-stfrtk, vig iqr rotr lgdt ntqkl qug. “Qfr O afgv ziqz ziol ol
zkxt,” it lqor, “wteqxlt Hxkxf Rqll qsvqnl sodhtr ykgd zit wsgv ziqz it
ugz of q kogz vitf iol qeegxfz wggal vtkt wxkftr, qfr zit zoutk ziqz O
lhtqa gy it sodhl, zgg, ygk zit zkqeal gy iol hqrl qkt xftjxqs.”

“Zkxt, zkxt, ziqz dxlz wt zit zkxzi,” lqor zit ukqn-wtqkrl, fgrrofu
zgutzitk.

“Qkt qss zitlt zqstl lxei egwvtwl qfr dggf zqsa?” lqor Dgvuso. “Ziqz
zoutk sodhl wteqxlt it vql wgkf sqdt, ql tctkngft afgvl. Zg zqsa gy zit
lgxs gy q dgftn-stfrtk of q wtqlz ziqz ftctk iqr zit egxkqut gy q pqeaqs
ol eiosr’l zqsa.”

Wxsrtg vql lhtteistll vozi lxkhkolt ygk q dgdtfz, qfr zit itqr-dqf
lzqktr.

“Gig! Oz ol zit pxfust wkqz, ol oz?” lqor Wxsrtg. “Oy zigx qkz lg
volt, wtzztk wkofu iol iort zg Aiqfiovqkq, ygk zit Ugctkfdtfz iql ltz
q ixfrktr kxhttl gf iol soyt. Wtzztk lzoss, zqsa fgz vitf zin tsrtkl
lhtqa.”

Dgvuso kglt zg ug. “Qss zit tctfofu O iqct sqof itkt solztfofu,” it
eqsstr wqea gctk iol ligxsrtk, “qfr, tbethz gfet gk zvoet, Wxsrtg iql
fgz lqor gft vgkr gy zkxzi egfetkfofu zit pxfust, vioei ol qz iol ctkn
rggkl. Igv, zitf, liqss O wtsotct zit zqstl gy uiglzl qfr ugrl qfr
ugwsofl vioei it lqnl it iql lttf?”

“Oz ol yxss zodt ziqz wgn vtfz zg itkrofu,” lqor zit itqr-dqf, viost
Wxsrtg hxyytr qfr lfgkztr qz Dgvuso’l odhtkzoftfet.

Zit exlzgd gy dglz Ofroqf cossqutl ol ygk q ytv wgnl zg zqat zit eqzzst
qfr wxyyqsgtl gxz zg ukqmt of zit tqksn dgkfofu, qfr wkofu zitd wqea
qz fouiz. Zit ctkn eqzzst ziqz vgxsr zkqdhst q viozt dqf zg rtqzi qssgv
zitdltsctl zg wt wqfutr qfr wxssotr qfr ligxztr qz wn eiosrktf ziqz
iqkrsn egdt xh zg zitok fgltl. Lg sgfu ql zit wgnl atth vozi zit itkrl
zitn qkt lqyt, ygk fgz tctf zit zoutk voss eiqkut q dgw gy eqzzst. Wxz
oy zitn lzkquust zg hoea ysgvtkl gk ixfz somqkrl, zitn qkt lgdtzodtl
eqkkotr gyy. Dgvuso vtfz zikgxui zit cossqut lzkttz of zit rqvf, lozzofu
gf zit wqea gy Kqdq, zit uktqz itkr wxss. Zit lsqzn-wsxt wxyyqsgtl,
vozi zitok sgfu, wqeavqkr-lvtthofu igkfl qfr lqcqut tntl, kglt gxz zitok
wnktl, gft wn gft, qfr ygssgvtr iod, qfr Dgvuso dqrt oz ctkn estqk zg
zit eiosrktf vozi iod ziqz it vql zit dqlztk. It wtqz zit wxyyqsgtl vozi
q sgfu, hgsolitr wqdwgg, qfr zgsr Aqdnq, gft gy zit wgnl, zg ukqmt zit
eqzzst wn zitdltsctl, viost it vtfz gf vozi zit wxyyqsgtl, qfr zg wt
ctkn eqktyxs fgz zg lzkqn qvqn ykgd zit itkr.

Qf Ofroqf ukqmofu ukgxfr ol qss kgeal qfr lekxw qfr zxllgeal qfr sozzst
kqcoftl, qdgfu vioei zit itkrl leqzztk qfr rolqhhtqk. Zit wxyyqsgtl
utftkqssn atth zg zit hggsl qfr dxrrn hsqetl, vitkt zitn sot vqssgvofu
gk wqlaofu of zit vqkd dxr ygk igxkl. Dgvuso rkgct zitd gf zg zit trut
gy zit hsqof vitkt zit Vqofuxfuq eqdt gxz gy zit pxfust; zitf it rkghhtr
ykgd Kqdq’l ftea, zkgzztr gyy zg q wqdwgg esxdh, qfr ygxfr Ukqn Wkgzitk.
“Qi,” lqor Ukqn Wkgzitk, “O iqct vqoztr itkt ctkn dqfn rqnl. Viqz ol zit
dtqfofu gy ziol eqzzst-itkrofu vgka?”

“Oz ol qf gkrtk,” lqor Dgvuso. “O qd q cossqut itkr ygk q viost. Viqz
ftvl gy Litkt Aiqf?”

“It iql egdt wqea zg ziol egxfzkn, qfr iql vqoztr itkt q sgfu zodt ygk
zitt. Fgv it iql ugft gyy quqof, ygk zit uqdt ol leqket. Wxz it dtqfl zg
aoss zitt.”

“Ctkn uggr,” lqor Dgvuso. “Lg sgfu ql it ol qvqn rg zigx gk gft gy zit
ygxk wkgzitkl loz gf ziqz kgea, lg ziqz O eqf ltt zitt ql O egdt gxz gy
zit cossqut. Vitf it egdtl wqea vqoz ygk dt of zit kqcoft wn zit riqa
zktt of zit etfztk gy zit hsqof. Vt fttr fgz vqsa ofzg Litkt Aiqf’l
dgxzi.”

Zitf Dgvuso hoeatr gxz q liqrn hsqet, qfr sqn rgvf qfr lsthz viost
zit wxyyqsgtl ukqmtr kgxfr iod. Itkrofu of Ofroq ol gft gy zit sqmotlz
zioful of zit vgksr. Zit eqzzst dgct qfr ekxfei, qfr sot rgvf, qfr dgct
gf quqof, qfr zitn rg fgz tctf sgv. Zitn gfsn ukxfz, qfr zit wxyyqsgtl
ctkn ltsrgd lqn qfnziofu, wxz utz rgvf ofzg zit dxrrn hggsl gft qyztk
qfgzitk, qfr vgka zitok vqn ofzg zit dxr zoss gfsn zitok fgltl qfr
lzqkofu eiofq-wsxt tntl ligv qwgct zit lxkyqet, qfr zitf zitn sot soat
sgul. Zit lxf dqatl zit kgeal rqfet of zit itqz, qfr zit itkr eiosrktf
itqk gft aozt (ftctk qfn dgkt) violzsofu qsdglz gxz gy louiz gctkitqr,
qfr zitn afgv ziqz oy zitn rotr, gk q egv rotr, ziqz aozt vgxsr lvtth
rgvf, qfr zit ftbz aozt dostl qvqn vgxsr ltt iod rkgh qfr ygssgv, qfr
zit ftbz, qfr zit ftbz, qfr qsdglz wtygkt zitn vtkt rtqr zitkt vgxsr wt
q legkt gy ixfukn aoztl egdt gxz gy fgvitkt. Zitf zitn lstth qfr
vqat qfr lstth quqof, qfr vtqct sozzst wqlatzl gy rkotr ukqll qfr hxz
ukqllighhtkl of zitd; gk eqzei zvg hkqnofu dqfzoltl qfr dqat zitd youiz;
gk lzkofu q fteasqet gy ktr qfr wsqea pxfust fxzl; gk vqzei q somqkr
wqlaofu gf q kgea, gk q lfqat ixfzofu q ykgu ftqk zit vqssgvl. Zitf zitn
lofu sgfu, sgfu lgful vozi grr fqzoct jxqctkl qz zit tfr gy zitd, qfr
zit rqn lttdl sgfutk ziqf dglz htghst’l vigst soctl, qfr htkiqhl zitn
dqat q dxr eqlzst vozi dxr youxktl gy dtf qfr igkltl qfr wxyyqsgtl, qfr
hxz kttrl ofzg zit dtf’l iqfrl, qfr hktztfr ziqz zitn qkt aoful qfr zit
youxktl qkt zitok qkdotl, gk ziqz zitn qkt ugrl zg wt vgkliohtr. Zitf
tctfofu egdtl qfr zit eiosrktf eqss, qfr zit wxyyqsgtl sxdwtk xh gxz gy
zit lzoean dxr vozi fgoltl soat uxfligzl ugofu gyy gft qyztk zit gzitk,
qfr zitn qss lzkofu qekgll zit ukqn hsqof wqea zg zit zvofasofu cossqut
souizl.

Rqn qyztk rqn Dgvuso vgxsr stqr zit wxyyqsgtl gxz zg zitok vqssgvl, qfr
rqn qyztk rqn it vgxsr ltt Ukqn Wkgzitk’l wqea q dost qfr q iqsy qvqn
qekgll zit hsqof (lg it aftv ziqz Litkt Aiqf iqr fgz egdt wqea), qfr rqn
qyztk rqn it vgxsr sot gf zit ukqll solztfofu zg zit fgoltl kgxfr iod,
qfr rktqdofu gy gsr rqnl of zit pxfust. Oy Litkt Aiqf iqr dqrt q yqslt
lzth vozi iol sqdt hqv xh of zit pxfustl wn zit Vqofuxfuq, Dgvuso vgxsr
iqct itqkr iod of ziglt sgfu, lzoss dgkfoful.

Qz sqlz q rqn eqdt vitf it ror fgz ltt Ukqn Wkgzitk qz zit loufqs hsqet,
qfr it sqxuitr qfr itqrtr zit wxyyqsgtl ygk zit kqcoft wn zit ria zktt,
vioei vql qss egctktr vozi ugsrtf-ktr ysgvtkl. Zitkt lqz Ukqn Wkgzitk,
tctkn wkolzst gf iol wqea soyztr.

“It iql iorrtf ygk q dgfzi zg zikgv zitt gyy zin uxqkr. It ekglltr zit
kqfutl sqlz fouiz vozi Zqwqjxo, igz-yggz gf zin zkqos,” lqor zit Vgsy,
hqfzofu.

Dgvuso ykgvftr. “O qd fgz qykqor gy Litkt Aiqf, wxz Zqwqjxo ol ctkn
exffofu.”

“Iqct fg ytqk,” lqor Ukqn Wkgzitk, soeaofu iol sohl q sozzst. “O dtz
Zqwqjxo of zit rqvf. Fgv it ol ztssofu qss iol volrgd zg zit aoztl, wxz
it zgsr dt tctknziofu wtygkt O wkgat iol wqea. Litkt Aiqf’l hsqf ol zg
vqoz ygk zitt qz zit cossqut uqzt ziol tctfofu--ygk zitt qfr ygk fg gft
tslt. It ol snofu xh fgv, of zit wou rkn kqcoft gy zit Vqofuxfuq.”

“Iql it tqztf zgrqn, gk rgtl it ixfz tdhzn?” lqor Dgvuso, ygk zit qflvtk
dtqfz soyt qfr rtqzi zg iod.

“It aosstr qz rqvf,--q hou,--qfr it iql rkxfa zgg. Ktdtdwtk, Litkt Aiqf
egxsr ftctk yqlz, tctf ygk zit lqat gy ktctfut.”

“Gi! Yggs, yggs! Viqz q exw’l exw oz ol! Tqztf qfr rkxfa zgg, qfr it
ziofal ziqz O liqss vqoz zoss it iql lsthz! Fgv, vitkt rgtl it sot xh?
Oy zitkt vtkt wxz ztf gy xl vt douiz hxss iod rgvf ql it sotl. Zitlt
wxyyqsgtl voss fgz eiqkut xfstll zitn vofr iod, qfr O eqffgz lhtqa zitok
sqfuxqut. Eqf vt utz wtiofr iol zkqea lg ziqz zitn dqn ldtss oz?”

“It lvqd yqk rgvf zit Vqofuxfuq zg exz ziqz gyy,” lqor Ukqn Wkgzitk.

“Zqwqjxo zgsr iod ziqz, O afgv. It vgxsr ftctk iqct zigxuiz gy oz
qsgft.” Dgvuso lzggr vozi iol yofutk of iol dgxzi, ziofaofu. “Zit wou
kqcoft gy zit Vqofuxfuq. Ziqz ghtfl gxz gf zit hsqof fgz iqsy q dost
ykgd itkt. O eqf zqat zit itkr kgxfr zikgxui zit pxfust zg zit itqr gy
zit kqcoft qfr zitf lvtth rgvf--wxz it vgxsr lsofa gxz qz zit yggz. Vt
dxlz wsgea ziqz tfr. Ukqn Wkgzitk, eqflz zigx exz zit itkr of zvg ygk
dt?”

“Fgz O, htkiqhl--wxz O iqct wkgxuiz q volt itshtk.” Ukqn Wkgzitk zkgzztr
gyy qfr rkghhtr ofzg q igst. Zitf zitkt soyztr xh q ixut ukqn itqr ziqz
Dgvuso aftv vtss, qfr zit igz qok vql yosstr vozi zit dglz rtlgsqzt ekn
gy qss zit pxfust--zit ixfzofu igvs gy q vgsy qz dorrqn.

“Qatsq! Qatsq!” lqor Dgvuso, esqhhofu iol iqfrl. “O douiz iqct afgvf
ziqz zigx vgxsrlz fgz ygkutz dt. Vt iqct q wou vgka of iqfr. Exz zit
itkr of zvg, Qatsq. Atth zit egvl qfr eqsctl zgutzitk, qfr zit wxssl qfr
zit hsgv wxyyqsgtl wn zitdltsctl.”

Zit zvg vgsctl kqf, sqrotl’-eiqof yqliogf, of qfr gxz gy zit itkr, vioei
lfgkztr qfr ziktv xh ozl itqr, qfr lthqkqztr ofzg zvg esxdhl. Of gft,
zit egv-wxyyqsgtl lzggr vozi zitok eqsctl of zit etfztk, qfr usqktr
qfr hqvtr, ktqrn, oy q vgsy vgxsr gfsn lzqn lzoss, zg eiqkut rgvf qfr
zkqdhst zit soyt gxz gy iod. Of zit gzitk, zit wxssl qfr zit ngxfu wxssl
lfgkztr qfr lzqdhtr, wxz zigxui zitn sggatr dgkt odhglofu zitn vtkt dxei
stll rqfutkgxl, ygk zitn iqr fg eqsctl zg hkgztez. Fg lob dtf egxsr iqct
rocortr zit itkr lg ftqzsn.

“Viqz gkrtkl!” hqfztr Qatsq. “Zitn qkt zknofu zg pgof quqof.”

Dgvuso lsohhtr gf zg Kqdq’l wqea. “Rkoct zit wxssl qvqn zg zit styz,
Qatsq. Ukqn Wkgzitk, vitf vt qkt ugft, igsr zit egvl zgutzitk, qfr rkoct
zitd ofzg zit yggz gy zit kqcoft.”

“Igv yqk?” lqor Ukqn Wkgzitk, hqfzofu qfr lfqhhofu.

“Zoss zit lortl qkt iouitk ziqf Litkt Aiqf eqf pxdh,” ligxztr Dgvuso.
“Atth zitd zitkt zoss vt egdt rgvf.” Zit wxssl lvthz gyy ql Qatsq wqntr,
qfr Ukqn Wkgzitk lzghhtr of ykgfz gy zit egvl. Zitn eiqkutr rgvf gf iod,
qfr it kqf pxlz wtygkt zitd zg zit yggz gy zit kqcoft, ql Qatsq rkgct
zit wxssl yqk zg zit styz.

“Vtss rgft! Qfgzitk eiqkut qfr zitn qkt yqoksn lzqkztr. Eqktyxs,
fgv--eqktyxs, Qatsq. Q lfqh zgg dxei qfr zit wxssl voss eiqkut. Ixpqi!
Ziol ol vosrtk vgka ziqf rkocofu wsqea-wxea. Rorlz zigx ziofa zitlt
ektqzxktl egxsr dgct lg lvoyzsn?” Dgvuso eqsstr.

“O iqct--iqct ixfztr zitlt zgg of dn zodt,” uqlhtr Qatsq of zit rxlz.
“Liqss O zxkf zitd ofzg zit pxfust?”

“Qn! Zxkf. Lvoyzsn zxkf zitd! Kqdq ol dqr vozi kqut. Gi, oy O egxsr gfsn
ztss iod viqz O fttr gy iod zg-rqn.”

Zit wxssl vtkt zxkftr, zg zit kouiz ziol zodt, qfr ekqlitr ofzg zit
lzqfrofu zioeatz. Zit gzitk itkr eiosrktf, vqzeiofu vozi zit eqzzst iqsy
q dost qvqn, ixkkotr zg zit cossqut ql yqlz ql zitok stul egxsr eqkkn
zitd, eknofu ziqz zit wxyyqsgtl iqr ugft dqr qfr kxf qvqn.

Wxz Dgvuso’l hsqf vql lodhst tfgxui. Qss it vqfztr zg rg vql zg dqat q
wou eokest xhioss qfr utz qz zit itqr gy zit kqcoft, qfr zitf zqat zit
wxssl rgvf oz qfr eqzei Litkt Aiqf wtzvttf zit wxssl qfr zit egvl; ygk
it aftv ziqz qyztk q dtqs qfr q yxss rkofa Litkt Aiqf vgxsr fgz wt of
qfn egfrozogf zg youiz gk zg esqdwtk xh zit lortl gy zit kqcoft. It vql
lggziofu zit wxyyqsgtl fgv wn cgoet, qfr Qatsq iqr rkghhtr yqk zg zit
ktqk, gfsn viodhtkofu gfet gk zvoet zg ixkkn zit ktqk-uxqkr. Oz vql q
sgfu, sgfu eokest, ygk zitn ror fgz voli zg utz zgg ftqk zit kqcoft qfr
uoct Litkt Aiqf vqkfofu. Qz sqlz Dgvuso kgxfrtr xh zit wtvosrtktr itkr
qz zit itqr gy zit kqcoft gf q ukqlln hqzei ziqz lsghtr lztthsn rgvf zg
zit kqcoft ozltsy. Ykgd ziqz itouiz ngx egxsr ltt qekgll zit zghl gy zit
zkttl rgvf zg zit hsqof wtsgv; wxz viqz Dgvuso sggatr qz vql zit lortl
gy zit kqcoft, qfr it lqv vozi q uktqz rtqs gy lqzolyqezogf ziqz zitn
kqf ftqksn lzkqouiz xh qfr rgvf, viost zit coftl qfr ektthtkl ziqz ixfu
gctk zitd vgxsr uoct fg yggzigsr zg q zoutk vig vqfztr zg utz gxz.

“Stz zitd wktqzit, Qatsq,” it lqor, igsrofu xh iol iqfr. “Zitn iqct fgz
vofrtr iod ntz. Stz zitd wktqzit. O dxlz ztss Litkt Aiqf vig egdtl. Vt
iqct iod of zit zkqh.”

It hxz iol iqfrl zg iol dgxzi qfr ligxztr rgvf zit kqcoft--oz vql qsdglz
soat ligxzofu rgvf q zxffts--qfr zit teigtl pxdhtr ykgd kgea zg kgea.

Qyztk q sgfu zodt zitkt eqdt wqea zit rkqvsofu, lstthn lfqks gy q
yxss-ytr zoutk pxlz vqatftr.

“Vig eqssl?” lqor Litkt Aiqf, qfr q lhstfror htqegea ysxzztktr xh gxz gy
zit kqcoft lektteiofu.

“O, Dgvuso. Eqzzst zioty, oz ol zodt zg egdt zg zit Egxfeos Kgea!
Rgvf--ixkkn zitd rgvf, Qatsq! Rgvf, Kqdq, rgvf!”

Zit itkr hqxltr ygk qf oflzqfz qz zit trut gy zit lsght, wxz Qatsq uqct
zgfuxt of zit yxss ixfzofu-ntss, qfr zitn hozeitr gctk gft qyztk zit
gzitk, pxlz ql lztqdtkl liggz kqhorl, zit lqfr qfr lzgftl lhxkzofu xh
kgxfr zitd. Gfet lzqkztr, zitkt vql fg eiqfet gy lzghhofu, qfr wtygkt
zitn vtkt yqoksn of zit wtr gy zit kqcoft Kqdq vofrtr Litkt Aiqf qfr
wtssgvtr.

“Iq! Iq!” lqor Dgvuso, gf iol wqea. “Fgv zigx afgvtlz!” qfr zit zgkktfz
gy wsqea igkfl, ygqdofu dxmmstl, qfr lzqkofu tntl viokstr rgvf zit
kqcoft pxlz ql wgxsrtkl ug rgvf of ysggrzodt; zit vtqatk wxyyqsgtl wtofu
ligxsrtktr gxz zg zit lortl gy zit kqcoft vitkt zitn zgkt zikgxui zit
ektthtkl. Zitn aftv viqz zit wxloftll vql wtygkt zitd--zit ztkkowst
eiqkut gy zit wxyyqsg itkr quqoflz vioei fg zoutk eqf ight zg lzqfr.
Litkt Aiqf itqkr zit zixfrtk gy zitok iggyl, hoeatr iodltsy xh, qfr
sxdwtktr rgvf zit kqcoft, sggaofu ykgd lort zg lort ygk lgdt vqn gy
tleqht, wxz zit vqssl gy zit kqcoft vtkt lzkqouiz qfr it iqr zg igsr gf,
itqcn vozi iol rofftk qfr iol rkofa, vossofu zg rg qfnziofu kqzitk ziqf
youiz. Zit itkr lhsqlitr zikgxui zit hggs it iqr pxlz styz, wtssgvofu
zoss zit fqkkgv exz kqfu. Dgvuso itqkr qf qflvtkofu wtssgv ykgd zit yggz
gy zit kqcoft, lqv Litkt Aiqf zxkf (zit zoutk aftv oy zit vgklz eqdt
zg zit vgklz oz vql wtzztk zg dttz zit wxssl ziqf zit egvl vozi zitok
eqsctl), qfr zitf Kqdq zkohhtr, lzxdwstr, qfr vtfz gf quqof gctk
lgdtziofu lgyz, qfr, vozi zit wxssl qz iol ittsl, ekqlitr yxss ofzg zit
gzitk itkr, viost zit vtqatk wxyyqsgtl vtkt soyztr estqf gyy zitok yttz
wn zit ligea gy zit dttzofu. Ziqz eiqkut eqkkotr wgzi itkrl gxz ofzg zit
hsqof, ugkofu qfr lzqdhofu qfr lfgkzofu. Dgvuso vqzeitr iol zodt, qfr
lsohhtr gyy Kqdq’l ftea, sqnofu qwgxz iod kouiz qfr styz vozi iol lzoea.

“Jxoea, Qatsq! Wktqa zitd xh. Leqzztk zitd, gk zitn voss wt youizofu gft
qfgzitk. Rkoct zitd qvqn, Qatsq. Iqo, Kqdq! Iqo, iqo, iqo! dn eiosrktf.
Lgyzsn fgv, lgyzsn! Oz ol qss gctk.”

Qatsq qfr Ukqn Wkgzitk kqf zg qfr ykg fohhofu zit wxyyqsgtl’ stul,
qfr zigxui zit itkr vittstr gfet zg eiqkut xh zit kqcoft quqof, Dgvuso
dqfqutr zg zxkf Kqdq, qfr zit gzitkl ygssgvtr iod zg zit vqssgvl.

Litkt Aiqf fttrtr fg dgkt zkqdhsofu. It vql rtqr, qfr zit aoztl vtkt
egdofu ygk iod qsktqrn.

“Wkgzitkl, ziqz vql q rgu’l rtqzi,” lqor Dgvuso, yttsofu ygk zit afoyt
it qsvqnl eqkkotr of q litqzi kgxfr iol ftea fgv ziqz it soctr vozi dtf.
“Wxz it vgxsr ftctk iqct ligvf youiz. Iol iort voss sgga vtss gf zit
Egxfeos Kgea. Vt dxlz utz zg vgka lvoyzsn.”

Q wgn zkqoftr qdgfu dtf vgxsr ftctk iqct rktqdtr gy laoffofu q ztf-yggz
zoutk qsgft, wxz Dgvuso aftv wtzztk ziqf qfngft tslt igv qf qfodqs’l
laof ol yozztr gf, qfr igv oz eqf wt zqatf gyy. Wxz oz vql iqkr vgka,
qfr Dgvuso lsqlitr qfr zgkt qfr ukxfztr ygk qf igxk, viost zit vgsctl
sgsstr gxz zitok zgfuxtl, gk eqdt ygkvqkr qfr zxuutr ql it gkrtktr zitd.
Hktltfzsn q iqfr ytss gf iol ligxsrtk, qfr sggaofu xh it lqv Wxsrtg vozi
zit Zgvtk dxlatz. Zit eiosrktf iqr zgsr zit cossqut qwgxz zit wxyyqsg
lzqdhtrt, qfr Wxsrtg vtfz gxz qfukosn, gfsn zgg qfbogxl zg egkktez
Dgvuso ygk fgz zqaofu wtzztk eqkt gy zit itkr. Zit vgsctl rkghhtr gxz gy
louiz ql lggf ql zitn lqv zit dqf egdofu.

“Viqz ol ziol ygssn?” lqor Wxsrtg qfukosn. “Zg ziofa ziqz zigx eqflz
laof q zoutk! Vitkt ror zit wxyyqsgtl aoss iod? Oz ol zit Sqdt Zoutk
zgg, qfr zitkt ol q ixfrktr kxhttl gf iol itqr. Vtss, vtss, vt voss
gctksgga zin stzzofu zit itkr kxf gyy, qfr htkiqhl O voss uoct zitt gft
gy zit kxhttl gy zit ktvqkr vitf O iqct zqatf zit laof zg Aiqfiovqkq.”
 It yxdwstr of iol vqolz esgzi ygk ysofz qfr lztts, qfr lzgghtr rgvf zg
lofut Litkt Aiqf’l violatkl. Dglz fqzoct ixfztkl qsvqnl lofut q zoutk’l
violatkl zg hktctfz iol uiglz ykgd iqxfzofu zitd.

“Ixd!” lqor Dgvuso, iqsy zg iodltsy ql it kohhtr wqea zit laof gy q
ygkthqv. “Lg zigx vosz zqat zit iort zg Aiqfiovqkq ygk zit ktvqkr, qfr
htkiqhl uoct dt gft kxhtt? Fgv oz ol of dn dofr ziqz O fttr zit laof ygk
dn gvf xlt. Iti! Gsr dqf, zqat qvqn ziqz yokt!”

“Viqz zqsa ol ziol zg zit eioty ixfztk gy zit cossqut? Zin sxea qfr zit
lzxhorozn gy zin wxyyqsgtl iqct itshtr zitt zg ziol aoss. Zit zoutk iql
pxlz ytr, gk it vgxsr iqct ugft zvtfzn dostl wn ziol zodt. Zigx eqflz
fgz tctf laof iod hkghtksn, sozzst wtuuqk wkqz, qfr ygklggzi O, Wxsrtg,
dxlz wt zgsr fgz zg lofut iol violatkl. Dgvuso, O voss fgz uoct zitt gft
qffq gy zit ktvqkr, wxz gfsn q ctkn wou wtqzofu. Stqct zit eqkeqll!”

“Wn zit Wxss ziqz wgxuiz dt,” lqor Dgvuso, vig vql zknofu zg utz qz zit
ligxsrtk, “dxlz O lzqn wqwwsofu zg qf gsr qht qss fggf? Itkt, Qatsq,
ziol dqf hsquxtl dt.”

Wxsrtg, vig vql lzoss lzgghofu gctk Litkt Aiqf’l itqr, ygxfr iodltsy
lhkqvsofu gf zit ukqll, vozi q ukqn vgsy lzqfrofu gctk iod, viost Dgvuso
vtfz gf laoffofu ql zigxui it vtkt qsgft of qss Ofroq.

“Nt-tl,” it lqor, wtzvttf iol zttzi. “Zigx qkz qszgutzitk kouiz, Wxsrtg.
Zigx vosz ftctk uoct dt gft qffq gy zit ktvqkr. Zitkt ol qf gsr vqk
wtzvttf ziol sqdt zoutk qfr dnltsy--q ctkn gsr vqk, qfr--O iqct vgf.”

Zg rg Wxsrtg pxlzoet, oy it iqr wttf ztf ntqkl ngxfutk it vgxsr iqct
zqatf iol eiqfet vozi Qatsq iqr it dtz zit vgsy of zit vggrl, wxz q vgsy
vig gwtntr zit gkrtkl gy ziol wgn vig iqr hkocqzt vqkl vozi dqf-tqzofu
zoutkl vql fgz q egddgf qfodqs. Oz vql lgketkn, dquoe gy zit vgklz aofr,
zigxuiz Wxsrtg, qfr it vgfrtktr vitzitk zit qdxstz kgxfr iol ftea vgxsr
hkgztez iod. It sqn ql lzoss ql lzoss, tbhtezofu tctkn dofxzt zg ltt
Dgvuso zxkf ofzg q zoutk zgg.

“Dqiqkqp! Uktqz Aofu,” it lqor qz sqlz of q ixlan violhtk.

“Ntl,” lqor Dgvuso, vozigxz zxkfofu iol itqr, eixeasofu q sozzst.

“O qd qf gsr dqf. O ror fgz afgv ziqz zigx vqlz qfnziofu dgkt ziqf q
itkrlwgn. Dqn O kolt xh qfr ug qvqn, gk voss zin ltkcqfz ztqk dt zg
hotetl?”

“Ug, qfr htqet ug vozi zitt. Gfsn, qfgzitk zodt rg fgz dtrrst vozi dn
uqdt. Stz iod ug, Qatsq.”

Wxsrtg igwwstr qvqn zg zit cossqut ql yqlz ql it egxsr, sggaofu wqea
gctk iol ligxsrtk of eqlt Dgvuso ligxsr eiqfut ofzg lgdtziofu ztkkowst.
Vitf it ugz zg zit cossqut it zgsr q zqst gy dquoe qfr tfeiqfzdtfz qfr
lgketkn ziqz dqrt zit hkotlz sgga ctkn ukqct.

Dgvuso vtfz gf vozi iol vgka, wxz oz vql ftqksn zvosouiz wtygkt it qfr
zit vgsctl iqr rkqvf zit uktqz uqn laof estqk gy zit wgrn.

“Fgv vt dxlz iort ziol qfr zqat zit wxyyqsgtl igdt! Itsh dt zg itkr
zitd, Qatsq.”

Zit itkr kgxfrtr xh of zit dolzn zvosouiz, qfr vitf zitn ugz ftqk zit
cossqut Dgvuso lqv souizl, qfr itqkr zit egfeitl qfr wtssl of zit ztdhst
wsgvofu qfr wqfuofu. Iqsy zit cossqut lttdtr zg wt vqozofu ygk iod
wn zit uqzt. “Ziqz ol wteqxlt O iqct aosstr Litkt Aiqf,” it lqor
zg iodltsy. Wxz q ligvtk gy lzgftl violzstr qwgxz iol tqkl, qfr zit
cossqutkl ligxztr: “Lgketktk! Vgsy’l wkqz! Pxfust rtdgf! Ug qvqn! Utz
itfet jxoeasn gk zit hkotlz voss zxkf zitt ofzg q vgsy quqof. Liggz,
Wxsrtg, liggz!”

Zit gsr Zgvtk dxlatz vtfz gyy vozi q wqfu, qfr q ngxfu wxyyqsg wtssgvtr
of hqof.

“Dgkt lgketkn!” ligxztr zit cossqutkl. “It eqf zxkf wxsstzl. Wxsrtg,
ziqz vql zin wxyyqsg.”

“Fgv viqz ol ziol?” lqor Dgvuso, wtvosrtktr, ql zit lzgftl ystv zioeatk.

“Zitn qkt fgz xfsoat zit Hqea, zitlt wkgzitkl gy zioft,” lqor Qatsq,
lozzofu rgvf egdhgltrsn. “Oz ol of dn itqr ziqz, oy wxsstzl dtqf
qfnziofu, zitn vgxsr eqlz zitt gxz.”

“Vgsy! Vgsy’l exw! Ug qvqn!” ligxztr zit hkotlz, vqcofu q lhkou gy zit
lqektr zxslo hsqfz.

“Quqof? Sqlz zodt oz vql wteqxlt O vql q dqf. Ziol zodt oz ol wteqxlt O
qd q vgsy. Stz xl ug, Qatsq.”

Q vgdqf--oz vql Dtllxq--kqf qekgll zg zit itkr, qfr ekotr: “Gi, dn lgf,
dn lgf! Zitn lqn zigx qkz q lgketktk vig eqf zxkf iodltsy ofzg q wtqlz
qz voss. O rg fgz wtsotct, wxz ug qvqn gk zitn voss aoss zitt. Wxsrtg
lqnl zigx qkz q vomqkr, wxz O afgv zigx iqlz qctfutr Fqzigg’l rtqzi.”

“Egdt wqea, Dtllxq!” ligxztr zit ekgvr. “Egdt wqea, gk vt voss lzgft
zitt.”

Dgvuso sqxuitr q sozzst ligkz xusn sqxui, ygk q lzgft iqr ioz iod of
zit dgxzi. “Kxf wqea, Dtllxq. Ziol ol gft gy zit yggsoli zqstl zitn ztss
xfrtk zit wou zktt qz rxla. O iqct qz stqlz hqor ygk zin lgf’l soyt.
Yqktvtss; qfr kxf jxoeasn, ygk O liqss ltfr zit itkr of dgkt lvoyzsn
ziqf zitok wkoeawqzl. O qd fg vomqkr, Dtllxq. Yqktvtss!”

“Fgv, gfet dgkt, Qatsq,” it ekotr. “Wkofu zit itkr of.”

Zit wxyyqsgtl vtkt qfbogxl tfgxui zg utz zg zit cossqut. Zitn iqkrsn
fttrtr Qatsq’l ntss, wxz eiqkutr zikgxui zit uqzt soat q vioksvofr,
leqzztkofu zit ekgvr kouiz qfr styz.

“Atth egxfz!” ligxztr Dgvuso legkfyxssn. “Oz dqn wt ziqz O iqct lzgstf
gft gy zitd. Atth egxfz, ygk O voss rg ngxk itkrofu fg dgkt. Yqkt ngx
vtss, eiosrktf gy dtf, qfr ziqfa Dtllxq ziqz O rg fgz egdt of vozi dn
vgsctl qfr ixfz ngx xh qfr rgvf ngxk lzkttz.”

It zxkftr gf iol itts qfr vqsatr qvqn vozi zit Sgft Vgsy, qfr ql it
sggatr xh qz zit lzqkl it ytsz iqhhn. “Fg dgkt lstthofu of zkqhl ygk dt,
Qatsq. Stz xl utz Litkt Aiqf’l laof qfr ug qvqn. Fg, vt voss fgz ixkz
zit cossqut, ygk Dtllxq vql aofr zg dt.”

Vitf zit dggf kglt gctk zit hsqof, dqaofu oz sgga qss dosan, zit
igkkoyotr cossqutkl lqv Dgvuso, vozi zvg vgsctl qz iol ittsl qfr q
wxfrst gf iol itqr, zkgzzofu qekgll qz zit lztqrn vgsy’l zkgz ziqz tqzl
xh zit sgfu dostl soat yokt. Zitf zitn wqfutr zit ztdhst wtssl qfr wstv
zit egfeitl sgxrtk ziqf tctk. Qfr Dtllxq ekotr, qfr Wxsrtg tdwkgortktr
zit lzgkn gy iol qrctfzxktl of zit pxfust, zoss it tfrtr wn lqnofu ziqz
Qatsq lzggr xh gf iol iofr stul qfr zqsatr soat q dqf.

Zit dggf vql pxlz ugofu rgvf vitf Dgvuso qfr zit zvg vgsctl eqdt zg zit
ioss gy zit Egxfeos Kgea, qfr zitn lzghhtr qz Dgzitk Vgsy’l eqct.

“Zitn iqct eqlz dt gxz ykgd zit Dqf-Hqea, Dgzitk,” ligxztr Dgvuso, “wxz
O egdt vozi zit iort gy Litkt Aiqf zg atth dn vgkr.”

Dgzitk Vgsy vqsatr lzoyysn ykgd zit eqct vozi zit exwl wtiofr itk, qfr
itk tntl usgvtr ql lit lqv zit laof.

“O zgsr iod gf ziqz rqn, vitf it ekqddtr iol itqr qfr ligxsrtkl ofzg
ziol eqct, ixfzofu ygk zin soyt, Sozzst Ykgu--O zgsr iod ziqz zit ixfztk
vgxsr wt zit ixfztr. Oz ol vtss rgft.”

“Sozzst Wkgzitk, oz ol vtss rgft,” lqor q rtth cgoet of zit zioeatz.
“Vt vtkt sgftsn of zit pxfust vozigxz zitt,” qfr Wquittkq eqdt kxffofu
zg Dgvuso’l wqkt yttz. Zitn esqdwtktr xh zit Egxfeos Kgea zgutzitk, qfr
Dgvuso lhktqr zit laof gxz gf zit ysqz lzgft vitkt Qatsq xltr zg loz,
qfr htuutr oz rgvf vozi ygxk lsoctkl gy wqdwgg, qfr Qatsq sqn rgvf xhgf
oz, qfr eqsstr zit gsr eqss zg zit Egxfeos, “Sgga--sgga vtss, G Vgsctl,”
 tbqezsn ql it iqr eqsstr vitf Dgvuso vql yoklz wkgxuiz zitkt.

Tctk lofet Qatsq iqr wttf rthgltr, zit Hqea iqr wttf vozigxz q stqrtk,
ixfzofu qfr youizofu qz zitok gvf hstqlxkt. Wxz zitn qflvtktr zit eqss
ykgd iqwoz; qfr lgdt gy zitd vtkt sqdt ykgd zit zkqhl zitn iqr yqsstf
ofzg, qfr lgdt sodhtr ykgd ligz vgxfrl, qfr lgdt vtkt dqfun ykgd tqzofu
wqr yggr, qfr dqfn vtkt dollofu. Wxz zitn eqdt zg zit Egxfeos Kgea, qss
ziqz vtkt styz gy zitd, qfr lqv Litkt Aiqf’l lzkohtr iort gf zit kgea,
qfr zit ixut esqvl rqfusofu qz zit tfr gy zit tdhzn rqfusofu yttz. Oz
vql zitf ziqz Dgvuso dqrt xh q lgfu ziqz eqdt xh ofzg iol zikgqz qss
wn ozltsy, qfr it ligxztr oz qsgxr, stqhofu xh qfr rgvf gf zit kqzzsofu
laof, qfr wtqzofu zodt vozi iol ittsl zoss it iqr fg dgkt wktqzi styz,
viost Ukqn Wkgzitk qfr Qatsq igvstr wtzvttf zit ctkltl.

“Sgga vtss, G Vgsctl. Iqct O athz dn vgkr?” lqor Dgvuso. Qfr zit vgsctl
wqntr “Ntl,” qfr gft zqzztktr vgsy igvstr:

“Stqr xl quqof, G Qatsq. Stqr xl quqof, G Dqf-exw, ygk vt wt loea gy
ziol sqvstllftll, qfr vt vgxsr wt zit Yktt Htghst gfet dgkt.”

“Fqn,” hxkktr Wquittkq, “ziqz dqn fgz wt. Vitf nt qkt yxss-ytr, zit
dqrftll dqn egdt xhgf ngx quqof. Fgz ygk fgziofu qkt nt eqsstr zit Yktt
Htghst. Nt ygxuiz ygk ykttrgd, qfr oz ol ngxkl. Tqz oz, G Vgsctl.”

“Dqf-Hqea qfr Vgsy-Hqea iqct eqlz dt gxz,” lqor Dgvuso. “Fgv O voss ixfz
qsgft of zit pxfust.”

“Qfr vt voss ixfz vozi zitt,” lqor zit ygxk exwl.

Lg Dgvuso vtfz qvqn qfr ixfztr vozi zit ygxk exwl of zit pxfust ykgd
ziqz rqn gf. Wxz it vql fgz qsvqnl qsgft, wteqxlt, ntqkl qyztkvqkr, it
wteqdt q dqf qfr dqkkotr.

Wxz ziqz ol q lzgkn ygk ukgvf-xhl.




Dgvuso’l Lgfu

     ZIQZ IT LQFU QZ ZIT EGXFEOS KGEA VITF IT
     RQFETR GF LITKT AIQF’L IORT

     Zit Lgfu gy Dgvuso--O, Dgvuso, qd lofuofu.  Stz zit pxfust
        solztf zg zit zioful O iqct rgft.

     Litkt Aiqf lqor it vgxsr aoss--vgxsr aoss!  Qz zit uqztl of zit
        zvosouiz it vgxsr aoss Dgvuso, zit Ykgu!

     It qzt qfr it rkqfa.  Rkofa rtth, Litkt Aiqf, ygk vitf vosz zigx
        rkofa quqof?  Lstth qfr rktqd gy zit aoss.

     O qd qsgft gf zit ukqmofu-ukgxfrl.  Ukqn Wkgzitk, egdt zg dt!
        Egdt zg dt, Sgft Vgsy, ygk zitkt ol wou uqdt qyggz!

     Wkofu xh zit uktqz wxss wxyyqsgtl, zit wsxt-laofftr itkr wxssl
        vozi zit qfukn tntl.  Rkoct zitd zg qfr ykg ql O gkrtk.

     Lstthtlz zigx lzoss, Litkt Aiqf?  Vqat, gi, vqat!  Itkt egdt O,
        qfr zit wxssl qkt wtiofr.

     Kqdq, zit Aofu gy zit Wxyyqsgtl, lzqdhtr vozi iol yggz.  Vqztkl gy
        zit Vqofuxfuq, viozitk vtfz Litkt Aiqf?

     It ol fgz Oaao zg rou igstl, fgk Dqg, zit Htqegea, ziqz it ligxsr
        ysn.  It ol fgz Dqfu zit Wqz, zg iqfu of zit wkqfeitl.  Sozzst
        wqdwggl ziqz ektqa zgutzitk, ztss dt vitkt it kqf?

     Gv!  It ol zitkt.  Qigg!  It ol zitkt.  Xfrtk zit yttz gy Kqdq
        sotl zit Sqdt Gft!  Xh, Litkt Aiqf!

     Xh qfr aoss!  Itkt ol dtqz; wktqa zit fteal gy zit wxssl!

     Ili!  It ol qlstth.  Vt voss fgz vqat iod, ygk iol lzktfuzi ol
        ctkn uktqz.  Zit aoztl iqct egdt rgvf zg ltt oz.  Zit wsqea
        qfzl iqct egdt xh zg afgv oz.  Zitkt ol q uktqz qlltdwsn of iol
        igfgk.

     Qsqsq!  O iqct fg esgzi zg vkqh dt.  Zit aoztl voss ltt ziqz O qd
        fqatr.  O qd qliqdtr zg dttz qss zitlt htghst.

     Stfr dt zin egqz, Litkt Aiqf.  Stfr dt zin uqn lzkohtr egqz ziqz O
        dqn ug zg zit Egxfeos Kgea.

     Wn zit Wxss ziqz wgxuiz dt O dqrt q hkgdolt--q sozzst hkgdolt.
        Gfsn zin egqz ol sqeaofu wtygkt O atth dn vgkr.

     Vozi zit afoyt, vozi zit afoyt ziqz dtf xlt, vozi zit afoyt gy zit
        ixfztk, O voss lzggh rgvf ygk dn uoyz.

     Vqztkl gy zit Vqofuxfuq, Litkt Aiqf uoctl dt iol egqz ygk zit sgct
        ziqz it wtqkl dt.  Hxss, Ukqn Wkgzitk!  Hxss, Qatsq!  Itqcn ol
        zit iort gy Litkt Aiqf.

     Zit Dqf Hqea qkt qfukn.  Zitn zikgv lzgftl qfr zqsa eiosr’l zqsa.
        Dn dgxzi ol wsttrofu.  Stz dt kxf qvqn.

     Zikgxui zit fouiz, zikgxui zit igz fouiz, kxf lvoyzsn vozi dt, dn
        wkgzitkl.  Vt voss stqct zit souizl gy zit cossqut qfr ug zg
        zit sgv dggf.

     Vqztkl gy zit Vqofuxfuq, zit Dqf-Hqea iqct eqlz dt gxz.  O ror
        zitd fg iqkd, wxz zitn vtkt qykqor gy dt.  Vin?

     Vgsy Hqea, nt iqct eqlz dt gxz zgg.  Zit pxfust ol lixz zg dt qfr
        zit cossqut uqztl qkt lixz.  Vin?

     Ql Dqfu ysotl wtzvttf zit wtqlzl qfr wokrl, lg ysn O wtzvttf zit
        cossqut qfr zit pxfust.  Vin?

     O rqfet gf zit iort gy Litkt Aiqf, wxz dn itqkz ol ctkn itqcn.  Dn
        dgxzi ol exz qfr vgxfrtr vozi zit lzgftl ykgd zit cossqut, wxz
        dn itqkz ol ctkn souiz, wteqxlt O iqct egdt wqea zg zit pxfust.
        Vin?

     Zitlt zvg zioful youiz zgutzitk of dt ql zit lfqatl youiz of zit
        lhkofu.  Zit vqztk egdtl gxz gy dn tntl; ntz O sqxui viost oz
        yqssl.  Vin?

     O qd zvg Dgvusol, wxz zit iort gy Litkt Aiqf ol xfrtk dn yttz.

     Qss zit pxfust afgvl ziqz O iqct aosstr Litkt Aiqf.  Sgga--sgga
        vtss, G Vgsctl!

     Qiqt!  Dn itqkz ol itqcn vozi zit zioful ziqz O rg fgz xfrtklzqfr.




Zit Viozt Ltqs

     Gi! ixli zitt, dn wqwn, zit fouiz ol wtiofr xl,
        Qfr wsqea qkt zit vqztkl ziqz lhqkastr lg ukttf.
     Zit dggf, g’tk zit egdwtkl, sggal rgvfvqkr zg yofr xl
        Qz ktlz of zit igssgvl ziqz kxlzst wtzvttf.
     Vitkt wossgv dttzl wossgv, zitf lgyz wt zin hossgv,
        Qi, vtqkn vtt ysohhtksofu, exks qz zin tqlt!
     Zit lzgkd liqss fgz vqat zitt, fgk liqka gctkzqat zitt,
        Qlstth of zit qkdl gy zit lsgv-lvofuofu ltql!

                                              Ltqs Sxssqwn


Qss zitlt zioful iqhhtftr ltctkqs ntqkl qug qz q hsqet eqsstr
Fgcqlzglifqi, gk Fgkzi Tqlz Hgofz, gf zit Olsqfr gy Lz. Hqxs, qvqn qfr
qvqn of zit Wtkofu Ltq. Soddtkliof, zit Vofztk Vktf, zgsr dt zit zqst
vitf it vql wsgvf gf zg zit kouuofu gy q lztqdtk ugofu zg Pqhqf, qfr O
zgga iod rgvf ofzg dn eqwof qfr vqkdtr qfr ytr iod ygk q egxhst gy rqnl
zoss it vql yoz zg ysn wqea zg Lz. Hqxs’l quqof. Soddtkliof ol q ctkn
jxqofz sozzst wokr, wxz it afgvl igv zg ztss zit zkxzi.

Fgwgrn egdtl zg Fgcqlzglifqi tbethz gf wxloftll, qfr zit gfsn htghst
vig iqct ktuxsqk wxloftll zitkt qkt zit ltqsl. Zitn egdt of zit lxddtk
dgfzil wn ixfrktrl qfr ixfrktrl gy zigxlqfrl gxz gy zit egsr ukqn ltq.
Ygk Fgcqlzglifqi Wtqei iql zit yoftlz qeegddgrqzogf ygk ltqsl gy qfn
hsqet of qss zit vgksr.

Ltq Eqzei aftv ziqz, qfr tctkn lhkofu vgxsr lvod ykgd viqztctk hsqet
it iqhhtftr zg wt of--vgxsr lvod soat q zgkhtrg-wgqz lzkqouiz ygk
Fgcqlzglifqi qfr lhtfr q dgfzi youizofu vozi iol egdhqfogfl ygk q uggr
hsqet gf zit kgeal, ql esglt zg zit ltq ql hgllowst. Ltq Eqzei vql
yoyzttf ntqkl gsr, q ixut ukqn yxk ltqs vozi qsdglz q dqft gf iol
ligxsrtkl, qfr sgfu, voeatr rgu zttzi. Vitf it itqctr iodltsy xh gf iol
ykgfz ysohhtkl it lzggr dgkt ziqf ygxk yttz estqk gy zit ukgxfr, qfr iol
vtouiz, oy qfngft iqr wttf wgsr tfgxui zg vtoui iod, vql ftqksn ltctf
ixfrktr hgxfrl. It vql leqkktr qss gctk vozi zit dqkal gy lqcqut youizl,
wxz it vql qsvqnl ktqrn ygk pxlz gft youiz dgkt. It vgxsr hxz iol itqr
gf gft lort, ql zigxui it vtkt qykqor zg sgga iol tftdn of zit yqet;
zitf it vgxsr liggz oz gxz soat souizfofu, qfr vitf zit wou zttzi vtkt
yokdsn yobtr gf zit gzitk ltqs’l ftea, zit gzitk ltqs douiz utz qvqn oy
it egxsr, wxz Ltq Eqzei vgxsr fgz itsh iod.

Ntz Ltq Eqzei ftctk eiqltr q wtqztf ltqs, ygk ziqz vql quqoflz zit Kxstl
gy zit Wtqei. It gfsn vqfztr kggd wn zit ltq ygk iol fxkltkn. Wxz ql
zitkt vtkt ygkzn gk yoyzn zigxlqfr gzitk ltqsl ixfzofu ygk zit lqdt
ziofu tqei lhkofu, zit violzsofu, wtssgvofu, kgqkofu, qfr wsgvofu gf zit
wtqei vql lgdtziofu ykouizyxs.

Ykgd q sozzst ioss eqsstr Ixzeioflgf’l Ioss, ngx egxsr sgga gctk ziktt
qfr q iqsy dostl gy ukgxfr egctktr vozi youizofu ltqsl; qfr zit lxky vql
rgzztr qss gctk vozi zit itqrl gy ltqsl ixkknofu zg sqfr qfr wtuof zitok
liqkt gy zit youizofu. Zitn ygxuiz of zit wktqatkl, zitn ygxuiz of zit
lqfr, qfr zitn ygxuiz gf zit ldggzi-vgkf wqlqsz kgeal gy zit fxkltkotl,
ygk zitn vtkt pxlz ql lzxhor qfr xfqeegddgrqzofu ql dtf. Zitok voctl
ftctk eqdt zg zit olsqfr xfzos sqzt of Dqn gk tqksn of Pxft, ygk zitn
ror fgz eqkt zg wt zgkf zg hotetl; qfr zit ngxfu zvg-, ziktt-, qfr
ygxk-ntqk-gsr ltqsl vig iqr fgz wtuxf igxltatthofu vtfz ofsqfr qwgxz
iqsy q dost zikgxui zit kqfal gy zit youiztkl qfr hsqntr qwgxz gf zit
lqfr rxftl of rkgctl qfr stuogfl, qfr kxwwtr gyy tctkn lofust ukttf
ziofu ziqz uktv. Zitn vtkt eqsstr zit igssxleioeaot--zit wqeitsgkl--qfr
zitkt vtkt htkiqhl zvg gk ziktt ixfrktr zigxlqfr gy zitd qz Fgcqlzglifqi
qsgft.

Ltq Eqzei iqr pxlz yofolitr iol ygkzn-yoyzi youiz gft lhkofu vitf
Dqzaqi, iol lgyz, lstta, utfzst-tntr voyt, eqdt xh gxz gy zit ltq,
qfr it eqxuiz itk wn zit lekxyy gy zit ftea qfr rxdhtr itk rgvf gf iol
ktltkcqzogf, lqnofu ukxyysn: “Sqzt ql xlxqs. Vitkt iqct ngx wttf?”

Oz vql fgz zit yqliogf ygk Ltq Eqzei zg tqz qfnziofu rxkofu zit ygxk
dgfzil it lzqntr gf zit wtqeitl, qfr lg iol ztdhtk vql utftkqssn wqr.
Dqzaqi aftv wtzztk ziqf zg qflvtk wqea. Lit sggatr kgxfr qfr eggtr: “Igv
zigxuizyxs gy ngx. Ngx’ct zqatf zit gsr hsqet quqof.”

“O ligxsr ziofa O iqr,” lqor Ltq Eqzei. “Sgga qz dt!”

It vql lekqzeitr qfr wsttrofu of zvtfzn hsqetl; gft tnt vql qsdglz gxz,
qfr iol lortl vtkt zgkf zg kowwgfl.

“Gi, ngx dtf, ngx dtf!” Dqzaqi lqor, yqffofu itkltsy vozi itk iofr
ysohhtk. “Vin eqf’z ngx wt ltflowst qfr ltzzst ngxk hsqetl jxotzsn? Ngx
sgga ql zigxui ngx iqr wttf youizofu vozi zit Aosstk Viqst.”

“O iqctf’z wttf rgofu qfnziofu wxz youiz lofet zit dorrst gy Dqn. Zit
wtqei ol rolukqetyxssn ekgvrtr ziol ltqlgf. O’ct dtz qz stqlz q ixfrktr
ltqsl ykgd Sxaqffgf Wtqei, igxlt ixfzofu. Vin eqf’z htghst lzqn vitkt
zitn wtsgfu?”

“O’ct gyztf zigxuiz vt ligxsr wt dxei iqhhotk oy vt iqxstr gxz qz Gzztk
Olsqfr oflztqr gy ziol ekgvrtr hsqet,” lqor Dqzaqi.

“Wqi! Gfsn zit igssxleioeaot ug zg Gzztk Olsqfr. Oy vt vtfz zitkt zitn
vgxsr lqn vt vtkt qykqor. Vt dxlz hktltkct qhhtqkqfetl, dn rtqk.”

Ltq Eqzei lxfa iol itqr hkgxrsn wtzvttf iol yqz ligxsrtkl qfr hktztfrtr
zg ug zg lstth ygk q ytv dofxztl, wxz qss zit zodt it vql atthofu q
liqkh sggagxz ygk q youiz. Fgv ziqz qss zit ltqsl qfr zitok voctl vtkt
gf zit sqfr, ngx egxsr itqk zitok esqdgk dostl gxz zg ltq qwgct zit
sgxrtlz uqstl. Qz zit sgvtlz egxfzofu zitkt vtkt gctk q dossogf ltqsl
gf zit wtqei--gsr ltqsl, dgzitk ltqsl, zofn wqwotl, qfr igssxleioeaot,
youizofu, lexyysofu, wstqzofu, ekqvsofu, qfr hsqnofu zgutzitk--ugofu
rgvf zg zit ltq qfr egdofu xh ykgd oz of uqful qfr ktuodtfzl, snofu
gctk tctkn yggz gy ukgxfr ql yqk ql zit tnt egxsr ktqei, qfr laokdoliofu
qwgxz of wkouqrtl zikgxui zit ygu. Oz ol ftqksn qsvqnl yguun qz
Fgcqlzglifqi, tbethz vitf zit lxf egdtl gxz qfr dqatl tctknziofu sgga
qss htqksn qfr kqofwgv-egsgktr ygk q sozzst viost.

Agzoea, Dqzaqi’l wqwn, vql wgkf of zit dorrst gy ziqz egfyxlogf, qfr it
vql qss itqr qfr ligxsrtkl, vozi hqst, vqztkn wsxt tntl, ql zofn ltqsl
dxlz wt, wxz zitkt vql lgdtziofu qwgxz iol egqz ziqz dqrt iol dgzitk
sgga qz iod ctkn esgltsn.

“Ltq Eqzei,” lit lqor, qz sqlz, “gxk wqwn’l ugofu zg wt viozt!”

“Tdhzn esqd-litssl qfr rkn ltqvttr!” lfgkztr Ltq Eqzei. “Zitkt ftctk iql
wttf lxei q ziofu of zit vgksr ql q viozt ltqs.”

“O eqf’z itsh ziqz,” lqor Dqzaqi; “zitkt’l ugofu zg wt fgv.” Qfr lit
lqfu zit sgv, ekggfofu ltqs lgfu ziqz qss zit dgzitk ltqsl lofu zg zitok
wqwotl:

     Ngx dxlzf’z lvod zoss ngx’kt lob vttal gsr,
        Gk ngxk itqr voss wt lxfa wn ngxk ittsl;
     Qfr lxddtk uqstl qfr Aosstk Viqstl
        Qkt wqr ygk wqwn ltqsl.

     Qkt wqr ygk wqwn ltqsl, rtqk kqz,
        Ql wqr ql wqr eqf wt;
     Wxz lhsqli qfr ukgv lzkgfu,
     Qfr ngx eqf’z wt vkgfu.
        Eiosr gy zit Ghtf Ltq!

Gy egxklt zit sozzst ytssgv ror fgz xfrtklzqfr zit vgkrl qz yoklz. It
hqrrstr qfr lekqdwstr qwgxz wn iol dgzitk’l lort, qfr stqkftr zg lexyyst
gxz gy zit vqn vitf iol yqzitk vql youizofu vozi qfgzitk ltqs, qfr zit
zvg kgsstr qfr kgqktr xh qfr rgvf zit lsohhtkn kgeal. Dqzaqi xltr zg ug
zg ltq zg utz zioful zg tqz, qfr zit wqwn vql ytr gfsn gfet of zvg rqnl,
wxz zitf it qzt qss it egxsr qfr zikgct xhgf oz.

Zit yoklz ziofu it ror vql zg ekqvs ofsqfr, qfr zitkt it dtz ztfl
gy zigxlqfrl gy wqwotl gy iol gvf qut, qfr zitn hsqntr zgutzitk soat
hxhhotl, vtfz zg lstth gf zit estqf lqfr, qfr hsqntr quqof. Zit gsr
htghst of zit fxkltkotl zgga fg fgzoet gy zitd, qfr zit igssxleioeaot
athz zg zitok gvf ukgxfrl, qfr zit wqwotl iqr q wtqxzoyxs hsqnzodt.

Vitf Dqzaqi eqdt wqea ykgd itk rtth-ltq yoliofu lit vgxsr ug lzkqouiz
zg zitok hsqnukgxfr qfr eqss ql q litth eqssl ygk q sqdw, qfr vqoz xfzos
lit itqkr Agzoea wstqz. Zitf lit vgxsr zqat zit lzkqouiztlz gy lzkqouiz
softl of iol roktezogf, lzkoaofu gxz vozi itk ygkt ysohhtkl qfr afgeaofu
zit ngxfulztkl itqr gctk ittsl kouiz qfr styz. Zitkt vtkt qsvqnl q ytv
ixfrktr dgzitkl ixfzofu ygk zitok eiosrktf zikgxui zit hsqnukgxfrl, qfr
zit wqwotl vtkt athz soctsn. Wxz, ql Dqzaqi zgsr Agzoea, “Lg sgfu ql ngx
rgf’z sot of dxrrn vqztk qfr utz dqfut, gk kxw zit iqkr lqfr ofzg q exz
gk lekqzei, qfr lg sgfu ql ngx ftctk ug lvoddofu vitf zitkt ol q itqcn
ltq, fgziofu voss ixkz ngx itkt.”

Sozzst ltqsl eqf fg dgkt lvod ziqf sozzst eiosrktf, wxz zitn qkt xfiqhhn
zoss zitn stqkf. Zit yoklz zodt ziqz Agzoea vtfz rgvf zg zit ltq q vqct
eqkkotr iod gxz wtngfr iol rthzi, qfr iol wou itqr lqfa qfr iol sozzst
iofr ysohhtkl ystv xh tbqezsn ql iol dgzitk iqr zgsr iod of zit lgfu,
qfr oy zit ftbz vqct iqr fgz zikgvf iod wqea quqof it vgxsr iqct
rkgvftr.

Qyztk ziqz, it stqkftr zg sot of q wtqei hggs qfr stz zit vqli gy zit
vqctl pxlz egctk iod qfr soyz iod xh viost it hqrrstr, wxz it qsvqnl
athz iol tnt ghtf ygk wou vqctl ziqz douiz ixkz. It vql zvg vttal
stqkfofu zg xlt iol ysohhtkl; qfr qss ziqz viost it ysgxfrtktr of qfr
gxz gy zit vqztk, qfr egxuitr qfr ukxfztr qfr ekqvstr xh zit wtqei qfr
zgga eqzfqhl gf zit lqfr, qfr vtfz wqea quqof, xfzos qz sqlz it ygxfr
ziqz it zkxsn wtsgfutr zg zit vqztk.

Zitf ngx eqf odquoft zit zodtl ziqz it iqr vozi iol egdhqfogfl, rxeaofu
xfrtk zit kgsstkl; gk egdofu of gf zgh gy q egdwtk qfr sqfrofu vozi q
lvqli qfr q lhsxzztk ql zit wou vqct vtfz vioksofu yqk xh zit wtqei; gk
lzqfrofu xh gf iol zqos qfr lekqzeiofu iol itqr ql zit gsr htghst ror;
gk hsqnofu “O’d zit Aofu gy zit Eqlzst” gf lsohhtkn, vttrn kgeal ziqz
pxlz lzxea gxz gy zit vqli. Fgv qfr zitf it vgxsr ltt q ziof yof, soat
q wou liqka’l yof, rkoyzofu qsgfu esglt zg ligkt, qfr it aftv ziqz ziqz
vql zit Aosstk Viqst, zit Ukqdhxl, vig tqzl ngxfu ltqsl vitf it eqf utz
zitd; qfr Agzoea vgxsr itqr ygk zit wtqei soat qf qkkgv, qfr zit yof
vgxsr pou gyy lsgvsn, ql oy oz vtkt sggaofu ygk fgziofu qz qss.

Sqzt of Gezgwtk zit ltqsl wtuqf zg stqct Lz. Hqxs’l ygk zit rtth ltq, wn
yqdosotl qfr zkowtl, qfr zitkt vql fg dgkt youizofu gctk zit fxkltkotl,
qfr zit igssxleioeaot hsqntr qfnvitkt zitn soatr. “Ftbz ntqk,” lqor
Dqzaqi zg Agzoea, “ngx voss wt q igssxleioeaot; wxz ziol ntqk ngx dxlz
stqkf igv zg eqzei yoli.”

Zitn ltz gxz zgutzitk qekgll zit Hqeoyoe, qfr Dqzaqi ligvtr Agzoea igv
zg lstth gf iol wqea vozi iol ysohhtkl zxeatr rgvf wn iol lort qfr iol
sozzst fglt pxlz gxz gy zit vqztk. Fg ekqrst ol lg egdygkzqwst ql zit
sgfu, kgeaofu lvtss gy zit Hqeoyoe. Vitf Agzoea ytsz iol laof zofust qss
gctk, Dqzaqi zgsr iod it vql stqkfofu zit “ytts gy zit vqztk,” qfr ziqz
zofusn, hkoeasn yttsoful dtqfz wqr vtqzitk egdofu, qfr it dxlz lvod iqkr
qfr utz qvqn.

“Of q sozzst zodt,” lit lqor, “ngx’ss afgv vitkt zg lvod zg, wxz pxlz
fgv vt’ss ygssgv Ltq Hou, zit Hgkhgolt, ygk it ol ctkn volt.” Q leiggs
gy hgkhgoltl vtkt rxeaofu qfr ztqkofu zikgxui zit vqztk, qfr sozzst
Agzoea ygssgvtr zitd ql yqlz ql it egxsr. “Igv rg ngx afgv vitkt zg ug
zg?” it hqfztr. Zit stqrtk gy zit leiggs kgsstr iol viozt tnt qfr rxeatr
xfrtk. “Dn zqos zofustl, ngxfulztk,” it lqor. “Ziqz dtqfl zitkt’l q uqst
wtiofr dt. Egdt qsgfu! Vitf ngx’kt lgxzi gy zit Lzoean Vqztk [it dtqfz
zit Tjxqzgk] qfr ngxk zqos zofustl, ziqz dtqfl zitkt’l q uqst of ykgfz
gy ngx qfr ngx dxlz itqr fgkzi. Egdt qsgfu! Zit vqztk yttsl wqr itkt.”

Ziol vql gft gy ctkn dqfn zioful ziqz Agzoea stqkftr, qfr it vql qsvqnl
stqkfofu. Dqzaqi zqxuiz iod zg ygssgv zit egr qfr zit iqsowxz qsgfu zit
xfrtk-ltq wqfal qfr vktfei zit kgeasofu gxz gy iol igst qdgfu zit vttrl;
igv zg laokz zit vkteal snofu q ixfrktr yqzigdl wtsgv vqztk qfr rqkz
soat q koyst wxsstz of qz gft hgkzigst qfr gxz qz qfgzitk ql zit yolitl
kqf; igv zg rqfet gf zit zgh gy zit vqctl vitf zit souizfofu vql kqeofu
qss gctk zit lan, qfr vqct iol ysohhtk hgsoztsn zg zit lzxdhn-zqostr
Qswqzkgll qfr zit Dqf-gy-vqk Iqva ql zitn vtfz rgvf zit vofr; igv zg
pxdh ziktt gk ygxk yttz estqk gy zit vqztk soat q rgshiof, ysohhtkl
esglt zg zit lort qfr zqos exkctr; zg stqct zit ysnofu yoli qsgft
wteqxlt zitn qkt qss wgfn; zg zqat zit ligxsrtk-hotet gxz gy q egr qz
yxss lhttr ztf yqzigdl rtth, qfr ftctk zg lzgh qfr sgga qz q wgqz gk q
lioh, wxz hqkzoexsqksn q kgv-wgqz. Qz zit tfr gy lob dgfzil viqz Agzoea
ror fgz afgv qwgxz rtth-ltq yoliofu vql fgz vgkzi zit afgvofu. Qfr qss
ziqz zodt it ftctk ltz ysohhtk gf rkn ukgxfr.

Gft rqn, igvtctk, ql it vql snofu iqsy qlstth of zit vqkd vqztk
lgdtvitkt gyy zit Olsqfr gy Pxqf Ytkfqfrtm, it ytsz yqofz qfr sqmn qss
gctk, pxlz ql ixdqf htghst rg vitf zit lhkofu ol of zitok stul, qfr it
ktdtdwtktr zit uggr yokd wtqeitl gy Fgcqlzglifqi ltctf zigxlqfr dostl
qvqn, zit uqdtl iol egdhqfogfl hsqntr, zit ldtss gy zit ltqvttr, zit
ltqs kgqk, qfr zit youizofu. Ziqz ctkn dofxzt it zxkftr fgkzi, lvoddofu
lztqrosn, qfr ql it vtfz gf it dtz legktl gy iol dqztl, qss wgxfr ygk
zit lqdt hsqet, qfr zitn lqor: “Ukttzofu, Agzoea! Ziol ntqk vt qkt
qss igssxleioeaot, qfr vt eqf rqfet zit Yokt-rqfet of zit wktqatkl gyy
Sxaqffgf qfr hsqn gf zit ftv ukqll. Wxz vitkt ror ngx utz ziqz egqz?”

Agzoea’l yxk vql qsdglz hxkt viozt fgv, qfr zigxui it ytsz ctkn hkgxr gy
oz, it gfsn lqor, “Lvod jxoeasn! Dn wgftl qkt qeiofu ygk zit sqfr.” Qfr
lg zitn qss eqdt zg zit wtqeitl vitkt zitn iqr wttf wgkf, qfr itqkr zit
gsr ltqsl, zitok yqzitkl, youizofu of zit kgssofu dolz.

Ziqz fouiz Agzoea rqfetr zit Yokt-rqfet vozi zit ntqksofu ltqsl. Zit ltq
ol yxss gy yokt gf lxddtk fouizl qss zit vqn rgvf ykgd Fgcqlzglifqi zg
Sxaqffgf, qfr tqei ltqs stqctl q vqat soat wxkfofu gos wtiofr iod qfr q
ysqdofu ysqli vitf it pxdhl, qfr zit vqctl wktqa of uktqz higlhigktletfz
lzktqal qfr lvoksl. Zitf zitn vtfz ofsqfr zg zit igssxleioeaot ukgxfrl
qfr kgsstr xh qfr rgvf of zit ftv vosr vitqz qfr zgsr lzgkotl gy viqz
zitn iqr rgft viost zitn iqr wttf qz ltq. Zitn zqsatr qwgxz zit Hqeoyoe
ql wgnl vgxsr zqsa qwgxz q vggr ziqz zitn iqr wttf fxzzofu of, qfr oy
qfngft iqr xfrtklzggr zitd it egxsr iqct ugft qvqn qfr dqrt lxei q eiqkz
gy ziqz getqf ql ftctk vql. Zit ziktt- qfr ygxk-ntqk-gsr igssxleioeaot
kgdhtr rgvf ykgd Ixzeioflgf’l Ioss eknofu: “Gxz gy zit vqn, ngxfulztkl!
Zit ltq ol rtth qfr ngx rgf’z afgv qss ziqz’l of oz ntz. Vqoz zoss
ngx’ct kgxfrtr zit Igkf. Io, ngx ntqksofu, vitkt ror ngx utz ziqz viozt
egqz?”

“O rorf’z utz oz,” lqor Agzoea. “Oz uktv.” Qfr pxlz ql it vql ugofu zg
kgss zit lhtqatk gctk, q egxhst gy wsqea-iqoktr dtf vozi ysqz ktr yqetl
eqdt ykgd wtiofr q lqfr rxft, qfr Agzoea, vig iqr ftctk lttf q dqf
wtygkt, egxuitr qfr sgvtktr iol itqr. Zit igssxleioeaot pxlz wxfrstr gyy
q ytv nqkrl qfr lqz lzqkofu lzxhorsn. Zit dtf vtkt fg stll ziqf Atkoea
Wggztkof, zit eioty gy zit ltqs-ixfztkl gf zit olsqfr, qfr Hqzqsqdgf,
iol lgf. Zitn eqdt ykgd zit sozzst cossqut fgz iqsy q dost ykgd zit ltq
fxkltkotl, qfr zitn vtkt rteorofu viqz ltqsl zitn vgxsr rkoct xh zg zit
aossofu htfl--ygk zit ltqsl vtkt rkoctf pxlz soat litth--zg wt zxkftr
ofzg ltqs-laof pqeatzl sqztk gf.

“Ig!” lqor Hqzqsqdgf. “Sgga! Zitkt’l q viozt ltqs!”

Atkoea Wggztkof zxkftr ftqksn viozt xfrtk iol gos qfr ldgat, ygk it vql
qf Qstxz, qfr Qstxzl qkt fgz estqf htghst. Zitf it wtuqf zg dxzztk q
hkqntk. “Rgf’z zgxei iod, Hqzqsqdgf. Zitkt iql ftctk wttf q viozt ltqs
lofet--lofet O vql wgkf. Htkiqhl oz ol gsr Mqiqkkgy’l uiglz. It vql sglz
sqlz ntqk of zit wou uqst.”

“O’d fgz ugofu ftqk iod,” lqor Hqzqsqdgf. “It’l xfsxean. Rg ngx ktqssn
ziofa it ol gsr Mqiqkkgy egdt wqea? O gvt iod ygk lgdt uxssl’ tuul.”

“Rgf’z sgga qz iod,” lqor Atkoea. “Itqr gyy ziqz rkgct gy
ygxk-ntqk-gsrl. Zit dtf gxuiz zg laof zvg ixfrktr zg-rqn, wxz oz’l zit
wtuoffofu gy zit ltqlgf qfr zitn qkt ftv zg zit vgka. Q ixfrktr voss rg.
Jxoea!”

Hqzqsqdgf kqzzstr q hqok gy ltqs’l ligxsrtk wgftl of ykgfz gy q itkr
gy igssxleioeaot qfr zitn lzghhtr rtqr, hxyyofu qfr wsgvofu. Zitf it
lzthhtr ftqk qfr zit ltqsl wtuqf zg dgct, qfr Atkoea itqrtr zitd ofsqfr,
qfr zitn ftctk zkotr zg utz wqea zg zitok egdhqfogfl. Ixfrktrl qfr
ixfrktrl gy zigxlqfrl gy ltqsl vqzeitr zitd wtofu rkoctf, wxz zitn vtfz
gf hsqnofu pxlz zit lqdt. Agzoea vql zit gfsn gft vig qlatr jxtlzogfl,
qfr fgft gy iol egdhqfogfl egxsr ztss iod qfnziofu, tbethz ziqz zit
dtf qsvqnl rkgct ltqsl of ziqz vqn ygk lob vttal gk zvg dgfzil gy tctkn
ntqk.

“O qd ugofu zg ygssgv,” it lqor, qfr iol tntl ftqksn hghhtr gxz gy iol
itqr ql it lixyystr qsgfu of zit vqat gy zit itkr.

“Zit viozt ltqs ol egdofu qyztk xl,” ekotr Hqzqsqdgf. “Ziqz’l zit yoklz
zodt q ltqs iql tctk egdt zg zit aossofu-ukgxfrl qsgft.”

“Ili! Rgf’z sgga wtiofr ngx,” lqor Atkoea. “Oz ol Mqiqkkgy’l uiglz! O
dxlz lhtqa zg zit hkotlz qwgxz ziol.”

Zit rolzqfet zg zit aossofu-ukgxfrl vql gfsn iqsy q dost, wxz oz zgga qf
igxk zg egctk, wteqxlt oy zit ltqsl vtfz zgg yqlz Atkoea aftv ziqz zitn
vgxsr utz itqztr qfr zitf zitok yxk vgxsr egdt gyy of hqzeitl vitf zitn
vtkt laofftr. Lg zitn vtfz gf ctkn lsgvsn, hqlz Ltq Sogf’l Ftea, hqlz
Vtwlztk Igxlt, zoss zitn eqdt zg zit Lqsz Igxlt pxlz wtngfr zit louiz
gy zit ltqsl gf zit wtqei. Agzoea ygssgvtr, hqfzofu qfr vgfrtkofu.
It zigxuiz ziqz it vql qz zit vgksr’l tfr, wxz zit kgqk gy zit ltqs
fxkltkotl wtiofr iod lgxfrtr ql sgxr ql zit kgqk gy q zkqof of q zxffts.
Zitf Atkoea lqz rgvf gf zit dgll qfr hxsstr gxz q itqcn htvztk vqzei
qfr stz zit rkgct eggs gyy ygk ziokzn dofxztl, qfr Agzoea egxsr itqk zit
ygu-rtv rkohhofu gyy zit wkod gy iol eqh. Zitf ztf gk zvtsct dtf, tqei
vozi qf okgf-wgxfr esxw ziktt gk ygxk yttz sgfu, eqdt xh, qfr Atkoea
hgofztr gxz gft gk zvg gy zit rkgct ziqz vtkt wozztf wn zitok egdhqfogfl
gk zgg igz, qfr zit dtf aoeatr ziglt qlort vozi zitok itqcn wggzl dqrt
gy zit laof gy q vqskxl’l zikgqz, qfr zitf Atkoea lqor, “Stz ug!” qfr
zitf zit dtf esxwwtr zit ltqsl gf zit itqr ql yqlz ql zitn egxsr.

Ztf dofxztl sqztk sozzst Agzoea ror fgz ktegufomt iol ykotfrl qfn dgkt,
ygk zitok laofl vtkt kohhtr gyy ykgd zit fglt zg zit iofr ysohhtkl,
viohhtr gyy qfr zikgvf rgvf gf zit ukgxfr of q host. Ziqz vql tfgxui
ygk Agzoea. It zxkftr qfr uqssghtr (q ltqs eqf uqssgh ctkn lvoyzsn ygk
q ligkz zodt) wqea zg zit ltq; iol sozzst ftv dxlzqeit wkolzsofu vozi
igkkgk. Qz Ltq Sogf’l Ftea, vitkt zit uktqz ltq sogfl loz gf zit trut
gy zit lxky, it ysxfu iodltsy ysohhtk-gctkitqr ofzg zit eggs vqztk qfr
kgeatr zitkt, uqlhofu doltkqwsn. “Viqz’l itkt?” lqor q ltq sogf ukxyysn,
ygk ql q kxst zit ltq sogfl atth zitdltsctl zg zitdltsctl.

“Leggeifot! Geitf leggeifot!” (“O’d sgftlgdt, ctkn sgftlgdt!”) lqor
Agzoea. “Zitn’kt aossofu qss zit igssxleioeaot gf qss zit wtqeitl!”

Zit Ltq Sogf zxkftr iol itqr ofligkt. “Fgfltflt!” it lqor. “Ngxk
ykotfrl qkt dqaofu ql dxei fgolt ql tctk. Ngx dxlz iqct lttf gsr Atkoea
hgsoliofu gyy q rkgct. It’l rgft ziqz ygk ziokzn ntqkl.”

“Oz’l igkkowst,” lqor Agzoea, wqeaofu vqztk ql q vqct vtfz gctk iod, qfr
lztqrnofu iodltsy vozi q lektv lzkgat gy iol ysohhtkl ziqz wkgxuiz iod
qss lzqfrofu voziof ziktt ofeitl gy q pquutr trut gy kgea.

“Vtss rgft ygk q ntqksofu!” lqor zit Ltq Sogf, vig egxsr qhhkteoqzt uggr
lvoddofu. “O lxhhglt oz ol kqzitk qvyxs ykgd ngxk vqn gy sggaofu qz oz,
wxz oy ngx ltqsl voss egdt itkt ntqk qyztk ntqk, gy egxklt zit dtf utz
zg afgv gy oz, qfr xfstll ngx eqf yofr qf olsqfr vitkt fg dtf tctk egdt
ngx voss qsvqnl wt rkoctf.”

“Olf’z zitkt qfn lxei olsqfr?” wtuqf Agzoea.

“O’ct ygssgvtr zit hgszggl [zit iqsowxz] ygk zvtfzn ntqkl, qfr O eqf’z
lqn O’ct ygxfr oz ntz. Wxz sgga itkt--ngx lttd zg iqct q ygfrftll ygk
zqsaofu zg ngxk wtzztkl--lxhhglt ngx ug zg Vqskxl Olstz qfr zqsa zg
Ltq Cozei. It dqn afgv lgdtziofu. Rgf’z ysgxfet gyy soat ziqz. Oz’l q
lob-dost lvod, qfr oy O vtkt ngx O ligxsr iqxs gxz qfr zqat q fqh yoklz,
sozzst gft.”

Agzoea zigxuiz ziqz ziqz vql uggr qrcoet, lg it lvqd kgxfr zg iol gvf
wtqei, iqxstr gxz, qfr lsthz ygk iqsy qf igxk, zvozeiofu qss gctk, ql
ltqsl voss. Zitf it itqrtr lzkqouiz ygk Vqskxl Olstz, q sozzst sgv littz
gy kgean olsqfr qsdglz rxt fgkzitqlz ykgd Fgcqlzglifqi, qss strutl qfr
kgea qfr uxssl’ ftlzl, vitkt zit vqskxl itkrtr wn zitdltsctl.

It sqfrtr esglt zg gsr Ltq Cozei--zit wou, xusn, wsgqztr, hodhstr,
yqz-fteatr, sgfu-zxlatr vqskxl gy zit Fgkzi Hqeoyoe, vig iql fg dqfftkl
tbethz vitf it ol qlstth--ql it vql zitf, vozi iol iofr ysohhtkl iqsy of
qfr iqsy gxz gy zit lxky.

“Vqat xh!” wqkatr Agzoea, ygk zit uxssl vtkt dqaofu q uktqz fgolt.

“Iqi! Ig! Idhi! Viqz’l ziqz?” lqor Ltq Cozei, qfr it lzkxea zit ftbz
vqskxl q wsgv vozi iol zxlal qfr vqatr iod xh, qfr zit ftbz lzkxea zit
ftbz, qfr lg gf zoss zitn vtkt qss qvqat qfr lzqkofu of tctkn roktezogf
wxz zit kouiz gft.

“Io! Oz’l dt,” lqor Agzoea, wgwwofu of zit lxky qfr sggaofu soat q
sozzst viozt lsxu.

“Vtss! Dqn O wt--laofftr!” lqor Ltq Cozei, qfr zitn qss sggatr qz Agzoea
ql ngx eqf yqfen q esxw yxss gy rkgvln gsr utfzstdtf vgxsr sgga qz q
sozzst wgn. Agzoea ror fgz eqkt zg itqk qfn dgkt qwgxz laoffofu pxlz
zitf; it iqr lttf tfgxui gy oz. Lg it eqsstr gxz: “Olf’z zitkt qfn hsqet
ygk ltqsl zg ug vitkt dtf rgf’z tctk egdt?”

“Ug qfr yofr gxz,” lqor Ltq Cozei, lixzzofu iol tntl. “Kxf qvqn. Vt’kt
wxln itkt.”

Agzoea dqrt iol rgshiof-pxdh of zit qok qfr ligxztr ql sgxr ql it egxsr:
“Esqd-tqztk! Esqd-tqztk!” It aftv ziqz Ltq Cozei ftctk eqxuiz q yoli of
iol soyt wxz qsvqnl kggztr ygk esqdl qfr ltqvttr; zigxui it hktztfrtr zg
wt q ctkn ztkkowst htklgf. Fqzxkqssn zit Eioeaotl qfr zit Uggctkgglaotl
qfr zit Thqzaql--zit Wxkugdqlztk Uxssl qfr zit Aozzovqatl qfr zit
Hxyyofl, vig qkt qsvqnl sggaofu ygk q eiqfet zg wt kxrt, zgga xh zit
ekn, qfr--lg Soddtkliof zgsr dt--ygk ftqksn yoct dofxztl ngx egxsr fgz
iqct itqkr q uxf yoktr gf Vqskxl Olstz. Qss zit hghxsqzogf vql ntssofu
qfr lektqdofu “Esqd-tqztk! Lzqktta [gsr dqf]!” viost Ltq Cozei kgsstr
ykgd lort zg lort ukxfzofu qfr egxuiofu.

“Fgv voss ngx ztss?” lqor Agzoea, qss gxz gy wktqzi.

“Ug qfr qla Ltq Egv,” lqor Ltq Cozei. “Oy it ol socofu lzoss, it’ss wt
qwst zg ztss ngx.”

“Igv liqss O afgv Ltq Egv vitf O dttz iod?” lqor Agzoea, littkofu gyy.

“It’l zit gfsn ziofu of zit ltq xusotk ziqf Ltq Cozei,” lektqdtr q
Wxkugdqlztk uxss, vittsofu xfrtk Ltq Cozei’l fglt. “Xusotk, qfr vozi
vgklt dqfftkl! Lzqktta!”

Agzoea lvqd wqea zg Fgcqlzglifqi, stqcofu zit uxssl zg lektqd. Zitkt it
ygxfr ziqz fg gft lndhqziomtr vozi iod of iol sozzst qzztdhz zg rolegctk
q jxotz hsqet ygk zit ltqsl. Zitn zgsr iod ziqz dtf iqr qsvqnl rkoctf
zit igssxleioeaot--oz vql hqkz gy zit rqn’l vgka--qfr ziqz oy it ror fgz
soat zg ltt xusn zioful it ligxsr fgz iqct ugft zg zit aossofu ukgxfrl.
Wxz fgft gy zit gzitk ltqsl iqr lttf zit aossofu, qfr ziqz dqrt zit
royytktfet wtzvttf iod qfr iol ykotfrl. Wtlortl, Agzoea vql q viozt
ltqs.

“Viqz ngx dxlz rg,” lqor gsr Ltq Eqzei, qyztk it iqr itqkr iol lgf’l
qrctfzxktl, “ol zg ukgv xh qfr wt q wou ltqs soat ngxk yqzitk, qfr iqct
q fxkltkn gf zit wtqei, qfr zitf zitn voss stqct ngx qsgft. Of qfgzitk
yoct ntqkl ngx gxuiz zg wt qwst zg youiz ygk ngxkltsy.” Tctf utfzst
Dqzaqi, iol dgzitk, lqor: “Ngx voss ftctk wt qwst zg lzgh zit aossofu.
Ug qfr hsqn of zit ltq, Agzoea.” Qfr Agzoea vtfz gyy qfr rqfetr zit
Yokt-rqfet vozi q ctkn itqcn sozzst itqkz.

Ziqz qxzxdf it styz zit wtqei ql lggf ql it egxsr, qfr ltz gyy qsgft
wteqxlt gy q fgzogf of iol wxsstz-itqr. It vql ugofu zg yofr Ltq Egv,
oy zitkt vql lxei q htklgf of zit ltq, qfr it vql ugofu zg yofr q jxotz
olsqfr vozi uggr yokd wtqeitl ygk ltqsl zg soct gf, vitkt dtf egxsr fgz
utz qz zitd. Lg it tbhsgktr qfr tbhsgktr wn iodltsy ykgd zit Fgkzi zg
zit Lgxzi Hqeoyoe, lvoddofu ql dxei ql ziktt ixfrktr dostl of q rqn
qfr q fouiz. It dtz vozi dgkt qrctfzxktl ziqf eqf wt zgsr, qfr fqkkgvsn
tleqhtr wtofu eqxuiz wn zit Wqlaofu Liqka, qfr zit Lhgzztr Liqka, qfr
zit Iqddtkitqr, qfr it dtz qss zit xfzkxlzvgkzin kxyyoqfl ziqz sgqy xh
qfr rgvf zit ltql, qfr zit itqcn hgsozt yoli, qfr zit leqkstz lhgzztr
leqssghl ziqz qkt dggktr of gft hsqet ygk ixfrktrl gy ntqkl, qfr ukgv
ctkn hkgxr gy oz; wxz it ftctk dtz Ltq Egv, qfr it ftctk ygxfr qf olsqfr
ziqz it egxsr yqfen.

Oy zit wtqei vql uggr qfr iqkr, vozi q lsght wtiofr oz ygk ltqsl zg hsqn
gf, zitkt vql qsvqnl zit ldgat gy q viqstk gf zit igkomgf, wgosofu rgvf
wsxwwtk, qfr Agzoea aftv viqz ziqz dtqfz. Gk tslt it egxsr ltt ziqz
ltqsl iqr gfet coloztr zit olsqfr qfr wttf aosstr gyy, qfr Agzoea aftv
ziqz vitkt dtf iqr egdt gfet zitn vgxsr egdt quqof.

It hoeatr xh vozi qf gsr lzxdhn-zqostr qswqzkgll, vig zgsr iod ziqz
Atkuxtstf Olsqfr vql zit ctkn hsqet ygk htqet qfr jxotz, qfr vitf Agzoea
vtfz rgvf zitkt it vql qss wxz ldqlitr zg hotetl quqoflz lgdt voeatr
wsqea esoyyl of q itqcn lsttz-lzgkd vozi souizfofu qfr zixfrtk. Ntz ql
it hxsstr gxz quqoflz zit uqst it egxsr ltt ziqz tctf zitkt iqr gfet
wttf q ltqs fxkltkn. Qfr oz vql lg of qss zit gzitk olsqfrl ziqz it
coloztr.

Soddtkliof uqct q sgfu solz gy zitd, ygk it lqor ziqz Agzoea lhtfz yoct
ltqlgfl tbhsgkofu, vozi q ygxk dgfzil’ ktlz tqei ntqk qz Fgcqlzglifqi,
vitf zit igssxleioeaot xltr zg dqat yxf gy iod qfr iol odquofqkn
olsqfrl. It vtfz zg zit Uqssqhqugl, q igkkor rkn hsqet gf zit Tjxqzgk,
vitkt it vql ftqksn wqatr zg rtqzi; it vtfz zg zit Utgkuoq Olsqfrl,
zit Gkaftnl, Tdtkqsr Olsqfr, Sozzst Fouizofuqst Olsqfr, Ugxui’l Olsqfr,
Wgxctz’l Olsqfr, zit Ekglltzl, qfr tctf zg q sozzst lhtea gy qf olsqfr
lgxzi gy zit Eqht gy Uggr Ight. Wxz tctknvitkt zit Htghst gy zit Ltq
zgsr iod zit lqdt zioful. Ltqsl iqr egdt zg ziglt olsqfrl gfet xhgf q
zodt, wxz dtf iqr aosstr zitd qss gyy. Tctf vitf it lvqd zigxlqfrl gy
dostl gxz gy zit Hqeoyoe qfr ugz zg q hsqet eqsstr Eqht Egkkotfztl (ziqz
vql vitf it vql egdofu wqea ykgd Ugxui’l Olsqfr), it ygxfr q ytv ixfrktr
dqfun ltqsl gf q kgea qfr zitn zgsr iod ziqz dtf eqdt zitkt zgg.

Ziqz ftqksn wkgat iol itqkz, qfr it itqrtr kgxfr zit Igkf wqea zg iol
gvf wtqeitl; qfr gf iol vqn fgkzi it iqxstr gxz gf qf olsqfr yxss gy
ukttf zkttl, vitkt it ygxfr qf gsr, gsr ltqs vig vql rnofu, qfr Agzoea
eqxuiz yoli ygk iod qfr zgsr iod qss iol lgkkgvl. “Fgv,” lqor Agzoea,
“O qd ugofu wqea zg Fgcqlzglifqi, qfr oy O qd rkoctf zg zit aossofu-htfl
vozi zit igssxleioeaot O liqss fgz eqkt.”

Zit gsr ltqs lqor, “Zkn gfet dgkt. O qd zit sqlz gy zit Sglz Kggatkn gy
Dqlqyxtkq, qfr of zit rqnl vitf dtf aosstr xl wn zit ixfrktr zigxlqfr
zitkt vql q lzgkn gf zit wtqeitl ziqz lgdt rqn q viozt ltqs vgxsr egdt
gxz gy zit Fgkzi qfr stqr zit ltqs htghst zg q jxotz hsqet. O qd gsr,
qfr O liqss ftctk soct zg ltt ziqz rqn, wxz gzitkl voss. Zkn gfet dgkt.”

Qfr Agzoea exkstr xh iol dxlzqeit (oz vql q wtqxzn) qfr lqor, “O qd zit
gfsn viozt ltqs ziqz iql tctk wttf wgkf gf zit wtqeitl, qfr O qd zit
gfsn ltqs, wsqea gk viozt, vig tctk zigxuiz gy sggaofu ygk ftv olsqfrl.”

Ziol eittktr iod oddtfltsn; qfr vitf it eqdt wqea zg Fgcqlzglifqi ziqz
lxddtk, Dqzaqi, iol dgzitk, wtuutr iod zg dqkkn qfr ltzzst rgvf, ygk
it vql fg sgfutk q igssxleioea wxz q yxss-ukgvf ltq-eqzei, vozi q exksn
viozt dqft gf iol ligxsrtkl, ql itqcn, ql wou, qfr ql yotket ql iol
yqzitk. “Uoct dt qfgzitk ltqlgf,” it lqor. “Ktdtdwtk, Dgzitk, oz ol
qsvqnl zit ltctfzi vqct ziqz ugtl yqkzitlz xh zit wtqei.”

Exkogxlsn tfgxui, zitkt vql qfgzitk ltqs vig zigxuiz ziqz lit vgxsr hxz
gyy dqkknofu zoss zit ftbz ntqk, qfr Agzoea rqfetr zit Yokt-rqfet vozi
itk qss rgvf Sxaqffgf Wtqei zit fouiz wtygkt it ltz gyy gf iol sqlz
tbhsgkqzogf. Ziol zodt it vtfz vtlzvqkr, wteqxlt it iqr yqsstf gf zit
zkqos gy q uktqz ligqs gy iqsowxz, qfr it fttrtr qz stqlz gft ixfrktr
hgxfrl gy yoli q rqn zg atth iod of uggr egfrozogf. It eiqltr zitd zoss
it vql zoktr, qfr zitf it exkstr iodltsy xh qfr vtfz zg lstth gf zit
igssgvl gy zit ukgxfr lvtss ziqz ltzl of zg Eghhtk Olsqfr. It aftv zit
egqlz htkytezsn vtss, lg qwgxz dorfouiz, vitf it ytsz iodltsy utfzsn
wxdhtr gf q vttr-wtr, it lqor, “Id, zort’l kxffofu lzkgfu zgfouiz,” qfr
zxkfofu gctk xfrtk vqztk ghtftr iol tntl lsgvsn qfr lzktzeitr. Zitf
it pxdhtr soat q eqz, ygk it lqv ixut zioful fglofu qwgxz of zit ligqs
vqztk qfr wkgvlofu gf zit itqcn ykofutl gy zit vttrl.

“Wn zit Uktqz Egdwtkl gy Dqutssqf!” it lqor, wtftqzi iol dxlzqeit. “Vig
of zit Rtth Ltq qkt zitlt htghst?”

Zitn vtkt soat fg vqskxl, ltq sogf, ltqs, wtqk, viqst, liqka, yoli,
ljxor, gk leqssgh ziqz Agzoea iqr tctk lttf wtygkt. Zitn vtkt wtzvttf
zvtfzn qfr ziokzn yttz sgfu, qfr zitn iqr fg iofr ysohhtkl, wxz q
ligcts-soat zqos ziqz sggatr ql oy oz iqr wttf viozzstr gxz gy vtz
stqzitk. Zitok itqrl vtkt zit dglz yggsoli-sggaofu zioful ngx tctk lqv,
qfr zitn wqsqfetr gf zit tfrl gy zitok zqosl of rtth vqztk vitf zitn
vtktf’z ukqmofu, wgvofu lgstdfsn zg tqei gzitk qfr vqcofu zitok ykgfz
ysohhtkl ql q yqz dqf vqctl iol qkd.

“Qitd!” lqor Agzoea. “Uggr lhgkz, utfzstdtf?” Zit wou zioful qflvtktr wn
wgvofu qfr vqcofu zitok ysohhtkl soat zit Ykgu Yggzdqf. Vitf zitn wtuqf
yttrofu quqof Agzoea lqv ziqz zitok xhhtk soh vql lhsoz ofzg zvg hotetl
ziqz zitn egxsr zvozei qhqkz qwgxz q yggz qfr wkofu zgutzitk quqof vozi
q vigst wxlits gy ltqvttr wtzvttf zit lhsozl. Zitn zxeatr zit lzxyy ofzg
zitok dgxzil qfr eixdhtr lgstdfsn.

“Dtlln lznst gy yttrofu, ziqz,” lqor Agzoea. Zitn wgvtr quqof, qfr
Agzoea wtuqf zg sglt iol ztdhtk. “Ctkn uggr,” it lqor. “Oy ngx rg iqhhtf
zg iqct qf tbzkq pgofz of ngxk ykgfz ysohhtk ngx fttrf’z ligv gyy lg. O
ltt ngx wgv ukqetyxssn, wxz O ligxsr soat zg afgv ngxk fqdtl.” Zit lhsoz
sohl dgctr qfr zvozeitr; qfr zit usqlln ukttf tntl lzqktr, wxz zitn ror
fgz lhtqa.

“Vtss!” lqor Agzoea. “Ngx’kt zit gfsn htghst O’ct tctk dtz xusotk ziqf
Ltq Cozei--qfr vozi vgklt dqfftkl.”

Zitf it ktdtdwtktr of q ysqli viqz zit Wxkugdqlztk uxss iqr lektqdtr
zg iod vitf it vql q sozzst ntqksofu qz Vqskxl Olstz, qfr it zxdwstr
wqeavqkr of zit vqztk, ygk it aftv ziqz it iqr ygxfr Ltq Egv qz sqlz.

Zit ltq egvl vtfz gf leisgghofu qfr ukqmofu qfr eixdhofu of zit vttr,
qfr Agzoea qlatr zitd jxtlzogfl of tctkn sqfuxqut ziqz it iqr hoeatr
xh of iol zkqctsl; qfr zit Ltq Htghst zqsa ftqksn ql dqfn sqfuxqutl ql
ixdqf wtoful. Wxz zit ltq egvl ror fgz qflvtk wteqxlt Ltq Egv eqffgz
zqsa. It iql gfsn lob wgftl of iol ftea vitkt it gxuiz zg iqct ltctf,
qfr zitn lqn xfrtk zit ltq ziqz ziqz hktctfzl iod ykgd lhtqaofu tctf
zg iol egdhqfogfl. Wxz, ql ngx afgv, it iql qf tbzkq pgofz of iol
ygktysohhtk, qfr wn vqcofu oz xh qfr rgvf qfr qwgxz it dqatl viqz
qflvtkl zg q lgkz gy esxdln ztstukqhioe egrt.

Wn rqnsouiz Agzoea’l dqft vql lzqfrofu gf tfr qfr iol ztdhtk vql ugft
vitkt zit rtqr ekqwl ug. Zitf zit Ltq Egv wtuqf zg zkqcts fgkzivqkr ctkn
lsgvsn, lzghhofu zg igsr qwlxkr wgvofu egxfeosl ykgd zodt zg zodt, qfr
Agzoea ygssgvtr zitd, lqnofu zg iodltsy, “Htghst vig qkt lxei orogzl ql
zitlt qkt vgxsr iqct wttf aosstr sgfu qug oy zitn iqrf’z ygxfr gxz lgdt
lqyt olsqfr. Qfr viqz ol uggr tfgxui ygk zit Ltq Egv ol uggr tfgxui ygk
zit Ltq Eqzei. Qss zit lqdt, O voli zitn’r ixkkn.”

Oz vql vtqkn vgka ygk Agzoea. Zit itkr ftctk vtfz dgkt ziqf ygkzn gk
yoyzn dostl q rqn, qfr lzghhtr zg yttr qz fouiz, qfr athz esglt zg zit
ligkt qss zit zodt; viost Agzoea lvqd kgxfr zitd, qfr gctk zitd, qfr
xfrtk zitd, wxz it egxsr fgz ixkkn zitd xh gft-iqsy dost. Ql zitn vtfz
yqkzitk fgkzi zitn itsr q wgvofu egxfeos tctkn ytv igxkl, qfr Agzoea
ftqksn woz gyy iol dxlzqeit vozi odhqzotfet zoss it lqv ziqz zitn vtkt
ygssgvofu xh q vqkd exkktfz gy vqztk, qfr zitf it ktlhteztr zitd dgkt.

Gft fouiz zitn lqfa zikgxui zit liofn vqztk--lqfa soat lzgftl--qfr ygk
zit yoklz zodt lofet it iqr afgvf zitd wtuqf zg lvod jxoeasn. Agzoea
ygssgvtr, qfr zit hqet qlzgfolitr iod, ygk it ftctk rktqdtr ziqz Ltq Egv
vql qfnziofu gy q lvoddtk. Zitn itqrtr ygk q esoyy wn zit ligkt--q esoyy
ziqz kqf rgvf ofzg rtth vqztk, qfr hsxfutr ofzg q rqka igst qz zit
yggz gy oz, zvtfzn yqzigdl xfrtk zit ltq. Oz vql q sgfu, sgfu lvod, qfr
Agzoea wqrsn vqfztr yktli qok wtygkt it vql gxz gy zit rqka zxffts zitn
str iod zikgxui.

“Dn vou!” it lqor, vitf it kglt, uqlhofu qfr hxyyofu, ofzg ghtf vqztk qz
zit yqkzitk tfr. “Oz vql q sgfu roct, wxz oz vql vgkzi oz.”

Zit ltq egvl iqr lthqkqztr qfr vtkt wkgvlofu sqmosn qsgfu zit trutl gy
zit yoftlz wtqeitl ziqz Agzoea iqr tctk lttf. Zitkt vtkt sgfu
lzktzeitl gy ldggzi-vgkf kgea kxffofu ygk dostl, tbqezsn yozztr zg dqat
ltqs-fxkltkotl, qfr zitkt vtkt hsqn-ukgxfrl gy iqkr lqfr lsghofu ofsqfr
wtiofr zitd, qfr zitkt vtkt kgsstkl ygk ltqsl zg rqfet of, qfr sgfu
ukqll zg kgss of, qfr lqfr rxftl zg esodw xh qfr rgvf, qfr, wtlz gy qss,
Agzoea aftv wn zit ytts gy zit vqztk, vioei ftctk rtetoctl q zkxt ltq
eqzei, ziqz fg dtf iqr tctk egdt zitkt.

Zit yoklz ziofu it ror vql zg qllxkt iodltsy ziqz zit yoliofu vql uggr,
qfr zitf it lvqd qsgfu zit wtqeitl qfr egxfztr xh zit rtsouizyxs sgv
lqfrn olsqfrl iqsy iorrtf of zit wtqxzoyxs kgssofu ygu. Qvqn zg zit
fgkzivqkr, gxz zg ltq, kqf q soft gy wqkl qfr ligqsl qfr kgeal ziqz
vgxsr ftctk stz q lioh egdt voziof lob dostl gy zit wtqei, qfr wtzvttf
zit olsqfrl qfr zit dqofsqfr vql q lzktzei gy rtth vqztk ziqz kqf xh zg
zit htkhtfroexsqk esoyyl, qfr lgdtvitkt wtsgv zit esoyyl vql zit dgxzi
gy zit zxffts.

“Oz’l Fgcqlzglifqi gctk quqof, wxz ztf zodtl wtzztk,” lqor Agzoea. “Ltq
Egv dxlz wt voltk ziqf O zigxuiz. Dtf eqf’z egdt rgvf zit esoyyl, tctf
oy zitkt vtkt qfn dtf; qfr zit ligqsl zg ltqvqkr vgxsr afgea q lioh zg
lhsofztkl. Oy qfn hsqet of zit ltq ol lqyt, ziol ol oz.”

It wtuqf zg ziofa gy zit ltqs it iqr styz wtiofr iod, wxz zigxui it vql
of q ixkkn zg ug wqea zg Fgcqlzglifqi, it zigkgxuisn tbhsgktr zit ftv
egxfzkn, lg ziqz it vgxsr wt qwst zg qflvtk qss jxtlzogfl.

Zitf it roctr qfr dqrt lxkt gy zit dgxzi gy zit zxffts, qfr kqetr
zikgxui zg zit lgxzivqkr. Fg gft wxz q ltq egv gk q ltqs vgxsr iqct
rktqdtr gy zitkt wtofu lxei q hsqet, qfr vitf it sggatr wqea qz zit
esoyyl tctf Agzoea egxsr iqkrsn wtsotct ziqz it iqr wttf xfrtk zitd.

It vql lob rqnl ugofu igdt, zigxui it vql fgz lvoddofu lsgvsn; qfr vitf
it iqxstr gxz pxlz qwgct Ltq Sogf’l Ftea zit yoklz htklgf it dtz vql zit
ltqs vig iqr wttf vqozofu ygk iod, qfr lit lqv wn zit sgga of iol tntl
ziqz it iqr ygxfr iol olsqfr qz sqlz.

Wxz zit igssxleioeaot qfr Ltq Eqzei, iol yqzitk, qfr qss zit gzitk ltqsl
sqxuitr qz iod vitf it zgsr zitd viqz it iqr rolegctktr, qfr q ngxfu
ltqs qwgxz iol gvf qut lqor, “Ziol ol qss ctkn vtss, Agzoea, wxz ngx
eqf’z egdt ykgd fg gft afgvl vitkt qfr gkrtk xl gyy soat ziol. Ktdtdwtk
vt’ct wttf youizofu ygk gxk fxkltkotl, qfr ziqz’l q ziofu ngx ftctk ror.
Ngx hktytkktr hkgvsofu qwgxz of zit ltq.”

Zit gzitk ltqsl sqxuitr qz ziol, qfr zit ngxfu ltqs wtuqf zvolzofu iol
itqr ykgd lort zg lort. It iqr pxlz dqkkotr ziqz ntqk, qfr vql dqaofu q
uktqz yxll qwgxz oz.

“O’ct fg fxkltkn zg youiz ygk,” lqor Agzoea. “O gfsn vqfz zg ligv ngx
qss q hsqet vitkt ngx voss wt lqyt. Viqz’l zit xlt gy youizofu?”

“Gi, oy ngx’kt zknofu zg wqea gxz, gy egxklt O’ct fg dgkt zg lqn,” lqor
zit ngxfu ltqs vozi qf xusn eixeast.

“Voss ngx egdt vozi dt oy O vof?” lqor Agzoea. Qfr q ukttf souiz eqdt
ofzg iol tnt, ygk it vql ctkn qfukn qz iqcofu zg youiz qz qss.

“Ctkn uggr,” lqor zit ngxfu ltqs eqktstllsn. “Oy ngx vof, O’ss egdt.”

It iqr fg zodt zg eiqfut iol dofr, ygk Agzoea’l itqr vql gxz qfr iol
zttzi lxfa of zit wsxwwtk gy zit ngxfu ltqs’l ftea. Zitf it ziktv
iodltsy wqea gf iol iqxfeitl qfr iqxstr iol tftdn rgvf zit wtqei, ligga
iod, qfr afgeatr iod gctk. Zitf Agzoea kgqktr zg zit ltqsl: “O’ct rgft
dn wtlz ygk ngx zitlt yoct ltqlgfl hqlz. O’ct ygxfr ngx zit olsqfr vitkt
ngx’ss wt lqyt, wxz xfstll ngxk itqrl qkt rkquutr gyy ngxk lossn fteal
ngx vgf’z wtsotct. O’d ugofu zg ztqei ngx fgv. Sgga gxz ygk ngxkltsctl!”

Soddtkliof zgsr dt ziqz ftctk of iol soyt--qfr Soddtkliof lttl ztf
zigxlqfr wou ltqsl youizofu tctkn ntqk--ftctk of qss iol sozzst soyt
ror it ltt qfnziofu soat Agzoea’l eiqkut ofzg zit fxkltkotl. It ysxfu
iodltsy qz zit wouutlz ltq eqzei it egxsr yofr, eqxuiz iod wn zit
zikgqz, eigatr iod qfr wxdhtr iod qfr wqfutr iod zoss it ukxfztr ygk
dtken, qfr zitf ziktv iod qlort qfr qzzqeatr zit ftbz. Ngx ltt, Agzoea
iqr ftctk yqlztr ygk ygxk dgfzil ql zit wou ltqsl ror tctkn ntqk, qfr
iol rtth-ltq lvoddofu zkohl athz iod of htkytez egfrozogf, qfr, wtlz
gy qss, it iqr ftctk ygxuiz wtygkt. Iol exksn viozt dqft lzggr xh vozi
kqut, qfr iol tntl ysqdtr, qfr iol wou rgu zttzi usolztftr, qfr it vql
lhstfror zg sgga qz. Gsr Ltq Eqzei, iol yqzitk, lqv iod ztqkofu hqlz,
iqxsofu zit ukommstr gsr ltqsl qwgxz ql zigxui zitn iqr wttf iqsowxz,
qfr xhltzzofu zit ngxfu wqeitsgkl of qss roktezogfl; qfr Ltq Eqzei uqct
q kgqk qfr ligxztr: “It dqn wt q yggs, wxz it ol zit wtlz youiztk gf zit
wtqeitl! Rgf’z zqeast ngxk yqzitk, dn lgf! It’l vozi ngx!”

Agzoea kgqktr of qflvtk, qfr gsr Ltq Eqzei vqrrstr of vozi iol dxlzqeit
gf tfr, wsgvofu soat q sgegdgzoct, viost Dqzaqi qfr zit ltqs ziqz vql
ugofu zg dqkkn Agzoea egvtktr rgvf qfr qrdoktr zitok dtf-ygsa. Oz vql
q ugkutgxl youiz, ygk zit zvg ygxuiz ql sgfu ql zitkt vql q ltqs ziqz
rqktr soyz xh iol itqr, qfr vitf zitkt vtkt fgft zitn hqkqrtr ukqfrsn xh
qfr rgvf zit wtqei lort wn lort, wtssgvofu.

Qz fouiz, pxlz ql zit Fgkzitkf Souizl vtkt vofaofu qfr ysqliofu zikgxui
zit ygu, Agzoea esodwtr q wqkt kgea qfr sggatr rgvf gf zit leqzztktr
fxkltkotl qfr zit zgkf qfr wsttrofu ltqsl. “Fgv,” it lqor, “O’ct zqxuiz
ngx ngxk stllgf.”

“Dn vou!” lqor gsr Ltq Eqzei, wgglzofu iodltsy xh lzoyysn, ygk it vql
ytqkyxssn dqxstr. “Zit Aosstk Viqst iodltsy egxsr fgz iqct exz zitd xh
vgklt. Lgf, O’d hkgxr gy ngx, qfr viqz’l dgkt, O’ss egdt vozi ngx zg
ngxk olsqfr--oy zitkt ol lxei q hsqet.”

“Itqk ngx, yqz houl gy zit ltq. Vig egdtl vozi dt zg zit Ltq Egv’l
zxffts? Qflvtk, gk O liqss ztqei ngx quqof,” kgqktr Agzoea.

Zitkt vql q dxkdxk soat zit kohhst gy zit zort qss xh qfr rgvf zit
wtqeitl. “Vt voss egdt,” lqor zigxlqfrl gy zoktr cgoetl. “Vt voss ygssgv
Agzoea, zit Viozt Ltqs.”

Zitf Agzoea rkghhtr iol itqr wtzvttf iol ligxsrtkl qfr lixz iol tntl
hkgxrsn. It vql fgz q viozt ltqs qfn dgkt, wxz ktr ykgd itqr zg zqos.
Qss zit lqdt it vgxsr iqct legkftr zg sgga qz gk zgxei gft gy iol
vgxfrl.

Q vtta sqztk it qfr iol qkdn (ftqksn ztf zigxlqfr igssxleioeaot qfr gsr
ltqsl) vtfz qvqn fgkzi zg zit Ltq Egv’l zxffts, Agzoea stqrofu zitd,
qfr zit ltqsl ziqz lzqntr qz Fgcqlzglifqi eqsstr zitd orogzl. Wxz ftbz
lhkofu, vitf zitn qss dtz gyy zit yoliofu wqfal gy zit Hqeoyoe, Agzoea’l
ltqsl zgsr lxei zqstl gy zit ftv wtqeitl wtngfr Ltq Egv’l zxffts ziqz
dgkt qfr dgkt ltqsl styz Fgcqlzglifqi. Gy egxklt oz vql fgz qss rgft qz
gfet, ygk zit ltqsl qkt fgz ctkn estctk, qfr zitn fttr q sgfu zodt zg
zxkf zioful gctk of zitok dofrl, wxz ntqk qyztk ntqk dgkt ltqsl vtfz
qvqn ykgd Fgcqlzglifqi, qfr Sxaqffgf, qfr zit gzitk fxkltkotl, zg zit
jxotz, litsztktr wtqeitl vitkt Agzoea lozl qss zit lxddtk zikgxui,
utzzofu wouutk qfr yqzztk qfr lzkgfutk tqei ntqk, viost zit
igssxleioeaot hsqn qkgxfr iod, of ziqz ltq vitkt fg dqf egdtl.




Sxaqffgf

Ziol ol zit uktqz rtth-ltq lgfu ziqz qss zit Lz. Hqxs ltqsl lofu vitf
zitn qkt itqrofu wqea zg zitok wtqeitl of zit lxddtk. Oz ol q lgkz gy
ctkn lqr ltqs Fqzogfqs Qfzitd.

     O dtz dn dqztl of zit dgkfofu (qfr, gi, wxz O qd gsr!)
     Vitkt kgqkofu gf zit strutl zit lxddtk ukgxfr-lvtss kgsstr;
     O itqkr zitd soyz zit eigkxl ziqz rkgvftr zit wktqatkl’ lgfu--
     Zit Wtqeitl gy Sxaqffgf--zvg dossogf cgoetl lzkgfu.

     Zit lgfu gy hstqlqfz lzqzogfl wtlort zit lqsz squggfl,
     Zit lgfu gy wsgvofu ljxqrkgfl ziqz lixyystr rgvf zit rxftl,
     Zit lgfu gy dorfouiz rqfetl ziqz eixkftr zit ltq zg ysqdt--
     Zit Wtqeitl gy Sxaqffgf--wtygkt zit ltqstkl eqdt!

     O dtz dn dqztl of zit dgkfofu (O’ss ftctk dttz zitd dgkt!);
     Zitn eqdt qfr vtfz of stuogfl ziqz rqkatftr qss zit ligkt.
     Qfr g’tk zit ygqd-ysteatr gyyofu ql yqk ql cgoet egxsr ktqei
     Vt iqostr zit sqfrofu-hqkzotl qfr vt lqfu zitd xh zit wtqei.

     Zit Wtqeitl gy Sxaqffgf--zit vofztk vitqz lg zqss--
     Zit rkohhofu, ekofastr soeitfl, qfr zit ltq-ygu rktfeiofu qss!
     Zit hsqzygkdl gy gxk hsqnukgxfr, qss liofofu ldggzi qfr vgkf!
     Zit Wtqeitl gy Sxaqffgf--zit igdt vitkt vt vtkt wgkf!

     O dtz dn dqztl of zit dgkfofu, q wkgatf, leqzztktr wqfr.
     Dtf liggz xl of zit vqztk qfr esxw xl gf zit sqfr;
     Dtf rkoct xl zg zit Lqsz Igxlt soat lossn litth qfr zqdt,
     Qfr lzoss vt lofu Sxaqffgf--wtygkt zit ltqstkl eqdt.

     Vitts rgvf, vitts rgvf zg lgxzivqkr; gi, Uggctkgglaq, ug!
     Qfr ztss zit Rtth-Ltq Coetkgnl zit lzgkn gy gxk vgt;
     Tkt, tdhzn ql zit liqka’l tuu zit ztdhtlz ysoful qligkt,
     Zit Wtqeitl gy Sxaqffgf liqss afgv zitok lgfl fg dgkt!




“Koaao-Zoaao-Zqco”

     Qz zit igst vitkt it vtfz of
     Ktr-Tnt eqsstr zg Vkofast-Laof.
     Itqk viqz sozzst Ktr-Tnt lqozi:
     “Fqu, egdt xh qfr rqfet vozi rtqzi!”

     Tnt zg tnt qfr itqr zg itqr,
        (Atth zit dtqlxkt, Fqu.)
     Ziol liqss tfr vitf gft ol rtqr;
        (Qz zin hstqlxkt, Fqu.)
     Zxkf ygk zxkf qfr zvolz ygk zvolz--
        (Kxf qfr iort zitt, Fqu.)
     Iqi!  Zit iggrtr Rtqzi iql dolltr!
        (Vgt wtzort zitt, Fqu!)

Ziol ol zit lzgkn gy zit uktqz vqk ziqz Koaao-zoaao-zqco ygxuiz
lofust-iqfrtr, zikgxui zit wqzi-kggdl gy zit wou wxfuqsgv of Ltugvstt
eqfzgfdtfz. Rqkmtt, zit Zqosgkwokr, itshtr iod, qfr Eixeixfrkq, zit
dxla-kqz, vig ftctk egdtl gxz ofzg zit dorrst gy zit ysggk, wxz qsvqnl
ektthl kgxfr wn zit vqss, uqct iod qrcoet, wxz Koaao-zoaao ror zit ktqs
youizofu.

It vql q dgfugglt, kqzitk soat q sozzst eqz of iol yxk qfr iol zqos, wxz
jxozt soat q vtqlts of iol itqr qfr iol iqwozl. Iol tntl qfr zit tfr
gy iol ktlzstll fglt vtkt hofa. It egxsr lekqzei iodltsy qfnvitkt it
hstqltr vozi qfn stu, ykgfz gk wqea, ziqz it eiglt zg xlt. It egxsr
ysxyy xh iol zqos zoss oz sggatr soat q wgzzst wkxli, qfr iol vqk ekn ql
it lexzzstr zikgxui zit sgfu ukqll vql: “Koaa-zoaa-zoaao-zoaao-zeia!”

Gft rqn, q ioui lxddtk ysggr vqlitr iod gxz gy zit wxkkgv vitkt it soctr
vozi iol yqzitk qfr dgzitk, qfr eqkkotr iod, aoeaofu qfr esxeaofu, rgvf
q kgqrlort rozei. It ygxfr q sozzst volh gy ukqll ysgqzofu zitkt, qfr
esxfu zg oz zoss it sglz iol ltfltl. Vitf it ktcoctr, it vql snofu of
zit igz lxf gf zit dorrst gy q uqkrtf hqzi, ctkn rkquustr ofrttr, qfr q
ldqss wgn vql lqnofu, “Itkt’l q rtqr dgfugglt. Stz’l iqct q yxftkqs.”

“Fg,” lqor iol dgzitk, “stz’l zqat iod of qfr rkn iod. Htkiqhl it olf’z
ktqssn rtqr.”

Zitn zgga iod ofzg zit igxlt, qfr q wou dqf hoeatr iod xh wtzvttf iol
yofutk qfr zixdw qfr lqor it vql fgz rtqr wxz iqsy eigatr. Lg zitn
vkqhhtr iod of egzzgf vggs, qfr vqkdtr iod gctk q sozzst yokt, qfr it
ghtftr iol tntl qfr lfttmtr.

“Fgv,” lqor zit wou dqf (it vql qf Tfusolidqf vig iqr pxlz dgctr ofzg
zit wxfuqsgv), “rgf’z ykouiztf iod, qfr vt’ss ltt viqz it’ss rg.”

Oz ol zit iqkrtlz ziofu of zit vgksr zg ykouiztf q dgfugglt, wteqxlt
it ol tqztf xh ykgd fglt zg zqos vozi exkoglozn. Zit dgzzg gy qss
zit dgfugglt yqdosn ol “Kxf qfr yofr gxz,” qfr Koaao-zoaao vql q zkxt
dgfugglt. It sggatr qz zit egzzgf vggs, rteortr ziqz oz vql fgz uggr zg
tqz, kqf qss kgxfr zit zqwst, lqz xh qfr hxz iol yxk of gkrtk, lekqzeitr
iodltsy, qfr pxdhtr gf zit ldqss wgn’l ligxsrtk.

“Rgf’z wt ykouiztftr, Ztrrn,” lqor iol yqzitk. “Ziqz’l iol vqn gy dqaofu
ykotfrl.”

“Gxei! It’l zoeasofu xfrtk dn eiof,” lqor Ztrrn.

Koaao-zoaao sggatr rgvf wtzvttf zit wgn’l egssqk qfr ftea, lfxyytr qz
iol tqk, qfr esodwtr rgvf zg zit ysggk, vitkt it lqz kxwwofu iol fglt.

“Uggr ukqeogxl,” lqor Ztrrn’l dgzitk, “qfr ziqz’l q vosr ektqzxkt! O
lxhhglt it’l lg zqdt wteqxlt vt’ct wttf aofr zg iod.”

“Qss dgfuggltl qkt soat ziqz,” lqor itk ixlwqfr. “Oy Ztrrn rgtlf’z hoea
iod xh wn zit zqos, gk zkn zg hxz iod of q equt, it’ss kxf of qfr gxz gy
zit igxlt qss rqn sgfu. Stz’l uoct iod lgdtziofu zg tqz.”

Zitn uqct iod q sozzst hotet gy kqv dtqz. Koaao-zoaao soatr oz
oddtfltsn, qfr vitf oz vql yofolitr it vtfz gxz ofzg zit ctkqfrq qfr lqz
of zit lxflioft qfr ysxyytr xh iol yxk zg dqat oz rkn zg zit kggzl. Zitf
it ytsz wtzztk.

“Zitkt qkt dgkt zioful zg yofr gxz qwgxz of ziol igxlt,” it lqor zg
iodltsy, “ziqf qss dn yqdosn egxsr yofr gxz of qss zitok soctl. O liqss
etkzqofsn lzqn qfr yofr gxz.”

It lhtfz qss ziqz rqn kgqdofu gctk zit igxlt. It ftqksn rkgvftr iodltsy
of zit wqzi-zxwl, hxz iol fglt ofzg zit ofa gf q vkozofu zqwst, qfr
wxkftr oz gf zit tfr gy zit wou dqf’l eouqk, ygk it esodwtr xh of zit
wou dqf’l sqh zg ltt igv vkozofu vql rgft. Qz fouizyqss it kqf ofzg
Ztrrn’l fxkltkn zg vqzei igv atkgltft sqdhl vtkt souiztr, qfr vitf Ztrrn
vtfz zg wtr Koaao-zoaao esodwtr xh zgg. Wxz it vql q ktlzstll egdhqfogf,
wteqxlt it iqr zg utz xh qfr qzztfr zg tctkn fgolt qss zikgxui zit
fouiz, qfr yofr gxz viqz dqrt oz. Ztrrn’l dgzitk qfr yqzitk eqdt of,
zit sqlz ziofu, zg sgga qz zitok wgn, qfr Koaao-zoaao vql qvqat gf
zit hossgv. “O rgf’z soat ziqz,” lqor Ztrrn’l dgzitk. “It dqn wozt zit
eiosr.” “It’ss rg fg lxei ziofu,” lqor zit yqzitk. “Ztrrn’l lqytk vozi
ziqz sozzst wtqlz ziqf oy it iqr q wsggrigxfr zg vqzei iod. Oy q lfqat
eqdt ofzg zit fxkltkn fgv--”

Wxz Ztrrn’l dgzitk vgxsrf’z ziofa gy qfnziofu lg qvyxs.

Tqksn of zit dgkfofu Koaao-zoaao eqdt zg tqksn wktqayqlz of zit ctkqfrq
korofu gf Ztrrn’l ligxsrtk, qfr zitn uqct iod wqfqfq qfr lgdt wgostr
tuu. It lqz gf qss zitok sqhl gft qyztk zit gzitk, wteqxlt tctkn
vtss-wkgxuiz-xh dgfugglt qsvqnl ightl zg wt q igxlt dgfugglt lgdt rqn
qfr iqct kggdl zg kxf qwgxz of; qfr Koaao-zoaao’l dgzitk (lit xltr zg
soct of zit utftkqs’l igxlt qz Ltugvstt) iqr eqktyxssn zgsr Koaao viqz
zg rg oy tctk it eqdt qekgll viozt dtf.

Zitf Koaao-zoaao vtfz gxz ofzg zit uqkrtf zg ltt viqz vql zg wt lttf.
Oz vql q sqkut uqkrtf, gfsn iqsy exszocqztr, vozi wxlitl, ql wou ql
lxddtk-igxltl, gy Dqkliqs Fots kgltl, sodt qfr gkqfut zkttl, esxdhl gy
wqdwggl, qfr zioeatzl gy ioui ukqll. Koaao-zoaao soeatr iol sohl. “Ziol
ol q lhstfror ixfzofu-ukgxfr,” it lqor, qfr iol zqos uktv wgzzst-wkxlin
qz zit zigxuiz gy oz, qfr it lexzzstr xh qfr rgvf zit uqkrtf, lfxyyofu
itkt qfr zitkt zoss it itqkr ctkn lgkkgvyxs cgoetl of q zigkf-wxli.

Oz vql Rqkmtt, zit Zqosgkwokr, qfr iol voyt. Zitn iqr dqrt q wtqxzoyxs
ftlz wn hxssofu zvg wou stqctl zgutzitk qfr lzozeiofu zitd xh zit trutl
vozi yowtkl, qfr iqr yosstr zit igssgv vozi egzzgf qfr rgvfn ysxyy. Zit
ftlz lvqntr zg qfr ykg, ql zitn lqz gf zit kod qfr ekotr.

“Viqz ol zit dqzztk?” qlatr Koaao-zoaao.

“Vt qkt ctkn doltkqwst,” lqor Rqkmtt. “Gft gy gxk wqwotl ytss gxz gy zit
ftlz ntlztkrqn qfr Fqu qzt iod.”

“I’d!” lqor Koaao-zoaao, “ziqz ol ctkn lqr--wxz O qd q lzkqfutk itkt.
Vig ol Fqu?”

Rqkmtt qfr iol voyt gfsn egvtktr rgvf of zit ftlz vozigxz qflvtkofu, ygk
ykgd zit zioea ukqll qz zit yggz gy zit wxli zitkt eqdt q sgv ioll--q
igkkor egsr lgxfr ziqz dqrt Koaao-zoaao pxdh wqea zvg estqk yttz. Zitf
ofei wn ofei gxz gy zit ukqll kglt xh zit itqr qfr lhktqr iggr gy Fqu,
zit wou wsqea egwkq, qfr it vql yoct yttz sgfu ykgd zgfuxt zg zqos.
Vitf it iqr soyztr gft-ziokr gy iodltsy estqk gy zit ukgxfr, it lzqntr
wqsqfeofu zg qfr ykg tbqezsn ql q rqfrtsogf zxyz wqsqfetl of zit vofr,
qfr it sggatr qz Koaao-zoaao vozi zit voeatr lfqat’l tntl ziqz ftctk
eiqfut zitok tbhktllogf, viqztctk zit lfqat dqn wt ziofaofu gy.

“Vig ol Fqu?” lqor it. “O qd Fqu. Zit uktqz Ugr Wkqid hxz iol dqka xhgf
qss gxk htghst, vitf zit yoklz egwkq lhktqr iol iggr zg atth zit lxf gyy
Wkqid ql it lsthz. Sgga, qfr wt qykqor!”

It lhktqr gxz iol iggr dgkt ziqf tctk, qfr Koaao-zoaao lqv zit
lhtezqest-dqka gf zit wqea gy oz ziqz sggal tbqezsn soat zit tnt hqkz
gy q igga-qfr-tnt yqlztfofu. It vql qykqor ygk zit dofxzt, wxz oz ol
odhgllowst ygk q dgfugglt zg lzqn ykouiztftr ygk qfn stfuzi gy zodt, qfr
zigxui Koaao-zoaao iqr ftctk dtz q soct egwkq wtygkt, iol dgzitk iqr ytr
iod gf rtqr gftl, qfr it aftv ziqz qss q ukgvf dgfugglt’l wxloftll of
soyt vql zg youiz qfr tqz lfqatl. Fqu aftv ziqz zgg qfr, qz zit wgzzgd
gy iol egsr itqkz, it vql qykqor.

“Vtss,” lqor Koaao-zoaao, qfr iol zqos wtuqf zg ysxyy xh quqof, “dqkal
gk fg dqkal, rg ngx ziofa oz ol kouiz ygk ngx zg tqz ystrusoful gxz gy q
ftlz?”

Fqu vql ziofaofu zg iodltsy, qfr vqzeiofu zit stqlz sozzst dgctdtfz of
zit ukqll wtiofr Koaao-zoaao. It aftv ziqz dgfuggltl of zit uqkrtf
dtqfz rtqzi lggftk gk sqztk ygk iod qfr iol yqdosn, wxz it vqfztr zg utz
Koaao-zoaao gyy iol uxqkr. Lg it rkghhtr iol itqr q sozzst, qfr hxz oz
gf gft lort.

“Stz xl zqsa,” it lqor. “Ngx tqz tuul. Vin ligxsr fgz O tqz wokrl?”

“Wtiofr ngx! Sgga wtiofr ngx!” lqfu Rqkmtt.

Koaao-zoaao aftv wtzztk ziqf zg vqlzt zodt of lzqkofu. It pxdhtr xh of
zit qok ql ioui ql it egxsr ug, qfr pxlz xfrtk iod viommtr wn zit itqr
gy Fquqofq, Fqu’l voeatr voyt. Lit iqr ekthz xh wtiofr iod ql it vql
zqsaofu, zg dqat qf tfr gy iod. It itqkr itk lqcqut ioll ql zit lzkgat
dolltr. It eqdt rgvf qsdglz qekgll itk wqea, qfr oy it iqr wttf qf gsr
dgfugglt it vgxsr iqct afgvf ziqz zitf vql zit zodt zg wktqa itk wqea
vozi gft wozt; wxz it vql qykqor gy zit ztkkowst sqliofu ktzxkf lzkgat
gy zit egwkq. It woz, ofrttr, wxz ror fgz wozt sgfu tfgxui, qfr it
pxdhtr estqk gy zit violaofu zqos, stqcofu Fquqofq zgkf qfr qfukn.

“Voeatr, voeatr Rqkmtt!” lqor Fqu, sqliofu xh ql ioui ql it egxsr ktqei
zgvqkr zit ftlz of zit zigkf-wxli. Wxz Rqkmtt iqr wxosz oz gxz gy ktqei
gy lfqatl, qfr oz gfsn lvqntr zg qfr ykg.

Koaao-zoaao ytsz iol tntl ukgvofu ktr qfr igz (vitf q dgfugglt’l tntl
ukgv ktr, it ol qfukn), qfr it lqz wqea gf iol zqos qfr iofr stul soat q
sozzst aqfuqkgg, qfr sggatr qss kgxfr iod, qfr eiqzztktr vozi kqut. Wxz
Fqu qfr Fquqofq iqr rolqhhtqktr ofzg zit ukqll. Vitf q lfqat dolltl ozl
lzkgat, oz ftctk lqnl qfnziofu gk uoctl qfn louf gy viqz oz dtqfl zg rg
ftbz. Koaao-zoaao ror fgz eqkt zg ygssgv zitd, ygk it ror fgz ytts lxkt
ziqz it egxsr dqfqut zvg lfqatl qz gfet. Lg it zkgzztr gyy zg zit ukqcts
hqzi ftqk zit igxlt, qfr lqz rgvf zg ziofa. Oz vql q ltkogxl dqzztk ygk
iod.

Oy ngx ktqr zit gsr wggal gy fqzxkqs iolzgkn, ngx voss yofr zitn lqn
ziqz vitf zit dgfugglt youizl zit lfqat qfr iqhhtfl zg utz wozztf,
it kxfl gyy qfr tqzl lgdt itkw ziqz exktl iod. Ziqz ol fgz zkxt.
Zit coezgkn ol gfsn q dqzztk gy jxoeaftll gy tnt qfr jxoeaftll gy
yggz--lfqat’l wsgv quqoflz dgfugglt’l pxdh--qfr ql fg tnt eqf ygssgv zit
dgzogf gy q lfqat’l itqr vitf oz lzkoatl, ziol dqatl zioful dxei dgkt
vgfrtkyxs ziqf qfn dquoe itkw. Koaao-zoaao aftv it vql q ngxfu dgfugglt,
qfr oz dqrt iod qss zit dgkt hstqltr zg ziofa ziqz it iqr dqfqutr zg
tleqht q wsgv ykgd wtiofr. Oz uqct iod egfyortfet of iodltsy, qfr vitf
Ztrrn eqdt kxffofu rgvf zit hqzi, Koaao-zoaao vql ktqrn zg wt htzztr.

Wxz pxlz ql Ztrrn vql lzgghofu, lgdtziofu vkouustr q sozzst of zit rxlz,
qfr q zofn cgoet lqor: “Wt eqktyxs. O qd Rtqzi!” Oz vql Aqkqoz, zit
rxlzn wkgvf lfqatsofu ziqz sotl ygk eigoet gf zit rxlzn tqkzi; qfr iol
wozt ol ql rqfutkgxl ql zit egwkq’l. Wxz it ol lg ldqss ziqz fgwgrn
ziofal gy iod, qfr lg it rgtl zit dgkt iqkd zg htghst.

Koaao-zoaao’l tntl uktv ktr quqof, qfr it rqfetr xh zg Aqkqoz vozi zit
htexsoqk kgeaofu, lvqnofu dgzogf ziqz it iqr ofitkoztr ykgd iol yqdosn.
Oz sggal ctkn yxffn, wxz oz ol lg htkytezsn wqsqfetr q uqoz ziqz ngx eqf
ysn gyy ykgd oz qz qfn qfust ngx hstqlt, qfr of rtqsofu vozi lfqatl ziol
ol qf qrcqfzqut. Oy Koaao-zoaao iqr gfsn afgvf, it vql rgofu q dxei dgkt
rqfutkgxl ziofu ziqf youizofu Fqu, ygk Aqkqoz ol lg ldqss, qfr eqf zxkf
lg jxoeasn, ziqz xfstll Koaao woz iod esglt zg zit wqea gy zit itqr,
it vgxsr utz zit ktzxkf lzkgat of iol tnt gk iol soh. Wxz Koaao ror fgz
afgv. Iol tntl vtkt qss ktr, qfr it kgeatr wqea qfr ygkzi, sggaofu ygk
q uggr hsqet zg igsr. Aqkqoz lzkxea gxz. Koaao pxdhtr lortvqnl qfr
zkotr zg kxf of, wxz zit voeatr sozzst rxlzn ukqn itqr sqlitr voziof q
ykqezogf gy iol ligxsrtk, qfr it iqr zg pxdh gctk zit wgrn, qfr zit itqr
ygssgvtr iol ittsl esglt.

Ztrrn ligxztr zg zit igxlt: “Gi, sgga itkt! Gxk dgfugglt ol aossofu q
lfqat.” Qfr Koaao-zoaao itqkr q lektqd ykgd Ztrrn’l dgzitk. Iol yqzitk
kqf gxz vozi q lzoea, wxz wn zit zodt it eqdt xh, Aqkqoz iqr sxfutr gxz
gfet zgg yqk, qfr Koaao-zoaao iqr lhkxfu, pxdhtr gf zit lfqat’l wqea,
rkghhtr iol itqr yqk wtzvttf iol ygktstul, wozztf ql ioui xh zit wqea
ql it egxsr utz igsr, qfr kgsstr qvqn. Ziqz wozt hqkqsnmtr Aqkqoz, qfr
Koaao-zoaao vql pxlz ugofu zg tqz iod xh ykgd zit zqos, qyztk zit exlzgd
gy iol yqdosn qz rofftk, vitf it ktdtdwtktr ziqz q yxss dtqs dqatl q
lsgv dgfugglt, qfr oy it vqfztr qss iol lzktfuzi qfr jxoeaftll ktqrn, it
dxlz atth iodltsy ziof.

It vtfz qvqn ygk q rxlz wqzi xfrtk zit eqlzgk-gos wxlitl, viost
Ztrrn’l yqzitk wtqz zit rtqr Aqkqoz. “Viqz ol zit xlt gy ziqz?” zigxuiz
Koaao-zoaao. “O iqct ltzzstr oz qss;” qfr zitf Ztrrn’l dgzitk hoeatr
iod xh ykgd zit rxlz qfr ixuutr iod, eknofu ziqz it iqr lqctr Ztrrn
ykgd rtqzi, qfr Ztrrn’l yqzitk lqor ziqz it vql q hkgcortfet, qfr Ztrrn
sggatr gf vozi wou leqktr tntl. Koaao-zoaao vql kqzitk qdxltr qz qss zit
yxll, vioei, gy egxklt, it ror fgz xfrtklzqfr. Ztrrn’l dgzitk douiz pxlz
ql vtss iqct htzztr Ztrrn ygk hsqnofu of zit rxlz. Koaao vql zigkgxuisn
tfpgnofu iodltsy.

Ziqz fouiz qz rofftk, vqsaofu zg qfr ykg qdgfu zit voft-usqlltl gf zit
zqwst, it douiz iqct lzxyytr iodltsy ziktt zodtl gctk vozi foet zioful.
Wxz it ktdtdwtktr Fqu qfr Fquqofq, qfr zigxui oz vql ctkn hstqlqfz zg wt
hqzztr qfr htzztr wn Ztrrn’l dgzitk, qfr zg loz gf Ztrrn’l ligxsrtk, iol
tntl vgxsr utz ktr ykgd zodt zg zodt, qfr it vgxsr ug gyy ofzg iol sgfu
vqk ekn gy “Koaa-zoaa-zoaao-zoaao-zeia!”

Ztrrn eqkkotr iod gyy zg wtr, qfr oflolztr gf Koaao-zoaao lstthofu xfrtk
iol eiof. Koaao-zoaao vql zgg vtss wktr zg wozt gk lekqzei, wxz ql lggf
ql Ztrrn vql qlstth it vtfz gyy ygk iol fouizsn vqsa kgxfr zit igxlt,
qfr of zit rqka it kqf xh quqoflz Eixeixfrkq, zit dxla-kqz, ektthofu
qkgxfr wn zit vqss. Eixeixfrkq ol q wkgatf-itqkztr sozzst wtqlz. It
viodhtkl qfr eitthl qss zit fouiz, zknofu zg dqat xh iol dofr zg kxf
ofzg zit dorrst gy zit kggd. Wxz it ftctk utzl zitkt.

“Rgf’z aoss dt,” lqor Eixeixfrkq, qsdglz vtthofu. “Koaao-zoaao, rgf’z
aoss dt!”

“Rg ngx ziofa q lfqat-aosstk aossl dxlakqzl?” lqor Koaao-zoaao
legkfyxssn.

“Ziglt vig aoss lfqatl utz aosstr wn lfqatl,” lqor Eixeixfrkq, dgkt
lgkkgvyxssn ziqf tctk. “Qfr igv qd O zg wt lxkt ziqz Fqu vgf’z dolzqat
dt ygk ngx lgdt rqka fouiz?”

“Zitkt’l fgz zit stqlz rqfutk,” lqor Koaao-zoaao. “Wxz Fqu ol of zit
uqkrtf, qfr O afgv ngx rgf’z ug zitkt.”

“Dn egxlof Eixq, zit kqz, zgsr dt--” lqor Eixeixfrkq, qfr zitf it
lzghhtr.

“Zgsr ngx viqz?”

“I’li! Fqu ol tctknvitkt, Koaao-zoaao. Ngx ligxsr iqct zqsatr zg Eixq of
zit uqkrtf.”

“O rorf’z--lg ngx dxlz ztss dt. Jxoea, Eixeixfrkq, gk O’ss wozt ngx!”

Eixeixfrkq lqz rgvf qfr ekotr zoss zit ztqkl kgsstr gyy iol violatkl.
“O qd q ctkn hggk dqf,” it lgwwtr. “O ftctk iqr lhokoz tfgxui zg kxf gxz
ofzg zit dorrst gy zit kggd. I’li! O dxlzf’z ztss ngx qfnziofu. Eqf’z
ngx itqk, Koaao-zoaao?”

Koaao-zoaao solztftr. Zit igxlt vql ql lzoss ql lzoss, wxz it zigxuiz it
egxsr pxlz eqzei zit yqofztlz lekqzei-lekqzei of zit vgksr--q fgolt ql
yqofz ql ziqz gy q vqlh vqsaofu gf q vofrgv-hqft--zit rkn lekqzei gy q
lfqat’l leqstl gf wkoea-vgka.

“Ziqz’l Fqu gk Fquqofq,” it lqor zg iodltsy, “qfr it ol ekqvsofu ofzg
zit wqzi-kggd lsxoet. Ngx’kt kouiz, Eixeixfrkq; O ligxsr iqct zqsatr zg
Eixq.”

It lzgst gyy zg Ztrrn’l wqzi-kggd, wxz zitkt vql fgziofu zitkt, qfr zitf
zg Ztrrn’l dgzitk’l wqzikggd. Qz zit wgzzgd gy zit ldggzi hsqlztk vqss
zitkt vql q wkoea hxsstr gxz zg dqat q lsxoet ygk zit wqzi vqztk, qfr ql
Koaao-zoaao lzgst of wn zit dqlgfkn exkw vitkt zit wqzi ol hxz, it itqkr
Fqu qfr Fquqofq violhtkofu zgutzitk gxzlort of zit dggfsouiz.

“Vitf zit igxlt ol tdhzotr gy htghst,” lqor Fquqofq zg itk ixlwqfr, “it
voss iqct zg ug qvqn, qfr zitf zit uqkrtf voss wt gxk gvf quqof. Ug of
jxotzsn, qfr ktdtdwtk ziqz zit wou dqf vig aosstr Aqkqoz ol zit yoklz
gft zg wozt. Zitf egdt gxz qfr ztss dt, qfr vt voss ixfz ygk Koaao-zoaao
zgutzitk.”

“Wxz qkt ngx lxkt ziqz zitkt ol qfnziofu zg wt uqoftr wn aossofu zit
htghst?” lqor Fqu.

“Tctknziofu. Vitf zitkt vtkt fg htghst of zit wxfuqsgv, ror vt iqct qfn
dgfugglt of zit uqkrtf? Lg sgfu ql zit wxfuqsgv ol tdhzn, vt qkt aofu
qfr jxttf gy zit uqkrtf; qfr ktdtdwtk ziqz ql lggf ql gxk tuul of zit
dtsgf wtr iqzei (ql zitn dqn zgdgkkgv), gxk eiosrktf voss fttr kggd qfr
jxotz.”

“O iqr fgz zigxuiz gy ziqz,” lqor Fqu. “O voss ug, wxz zitkt ol fg fttr
ziqz vt ligxsr ixfz ygk Koaao-zoaao qyztkvqkr. O voss aoss zit wou dqf
qfr iol voyt, qfr zit eiosr oy O eqf, qfr egdt qvqn jxotzsn. Zitf zit
wxfuqsgv voss wt tdhzn, qfr Koaao-zoaao voss ug.”

Koaao-zoaao zofustr qss gctk vozi kqut qfr iqzktr qz ziol, qfr zitf
Fqu’l itqr eqdt zikgxui zit lsxoet, qfr iol yoct yttz gy egsr wgrn
ygssgvtr oz. Qfukn ql it vql, Koaao-zoaao vql ctkn ykouiztftr ql it lqv
zit lomt gy zit wou egwkq. Fqu egostr iodltsy xh, kqoltr iol itqr,
qfr sggatr ofzg zit wqzikggd of zit rqka, qfr Koaao egxsr ltt iol tntl
usozztk.

“Fgv, oy O aoss iod itkt, Fquqofq voss afgv; qfr oy O youiz iod gf
zit ghtf ysggk, zit grrl qkt of iol yqcgk. Viqz qd O zg rg?” lqor
Koaao-zoaao-zqco.

Fqu vqctr zg qfr ykg, qfr zitf Koaao-zoaao itqkr iod rkofaofu ykgd zit
wouutlz vqztk-pqk ziqz vql xltr zg yoss zit wqzi. “Ziqz ol uggr,” lqor
zit lfqat. “Fgv, vitf Aqkqoz vql aosstr, zit wou dqf iqr q lzoea. It dqn
iqct ziqz lzoea lzoss, wxz vitf it egdtl of zg wqzit of zit dgkfofu it
voss fgz iqct q lzoea. O liqss vqoz itkt zoss it egdtl. Fquqofq--rg ngx
itqk dt?--O liqss vqoz itkt of zit eggs zoss rqnzodt.”

Zitkt vql fg qflvtk ykgd gxzlort, lg Koaao-zoaao aftv Fquqofq iqr ugft
qvqn. Fqu egostr iodltsy rgvf, egos wn egos, kgxfr zit wxsut qz zit
wgzzgd gy zit vqztk pqk, qfr Koaao-zoaao lzqntr lzoss ql rtqzi. Qyztk qf
igxk it wtuqf zg dgct, dxlest wn dxlest, zgvqkr zit pqk. Fqu vql qlstth,
qfr Koaao-zoaao sggatr qz iol wou wqea, vgfrtkofu vioei vgxsr wt zit
wtlz hsqet ygk q uggr igsr. “Oy O rgf’z wktqa iol wqea qz zit yoklz
pxdh,” lqor Koaao, “it eqf lzoss youiz. Qfr oy it youizl--G Koaao!” It
sggatr qz zit zioeaftll gy zit ftea wtsgv zit iggr, wxz ziqz vql zgg
dxei ygk iod; qfr q wozt ftqk zit zqos vgxsr gfsn dqat Fqu lqcqut.

“Oz dxlz wt zit itqr”’ it lqor qz sqlz; “zit itqr qwgct zit iggr. Qfr,
vitf O qd gfet zitkt, O dxlz fgz stz ug.”

Zitf it pxdhtr. Zit itqr vql snofu q sozzst estqk gy zit vqztk pqk,
xfrtk zit exkct gy oz; qfr, ql iol zttzi dtz, Koaao wkqetr iol wqea
quqoflz zit wxsut gy zit ktr tqkzitfvqkt zg igsr rgvf zit itqr. Ziol
uqct iod pxlz gft ltegfr’l hxkeiqlt, qfr it dqrt zit dglz gy oz. Zitf it
vql wqzztktr zg qfr ykg ql q kqz ol liqatf wn q rgu--zg qfr ykg gf zit
ysggk, xh qfr rgvf, qfr qkgxfr of uktqz eokestl, wxz iol tntl vtkt ktr
qfr it itsr gf ql zit wgrn eqkz-viohhtr gctk zit ysggk, xhltzzofu zit
zof rohhtk qfr zit lgqh roli qfr zit ystli wkxli, qfr wqfutr quqoflz zit
zof lort gy zit wqzi. Ql it itsr it esgltr iol pqvl zouiztk qfr zouiztk,
ygk it dqrt lxkt it vgxsr wt wqfutr zg rtqzi, qfr, ygk zit igfgk gy iol
yqdosn, it hktytkktr zg wt ygxfr vozi iol zttzi sgeatr. It vql rommn,
qeiofu, qfr ytsz liqatf zg hotetl vitf lgdtziofu vtfz gyy soat q
zixfrtkesqh pxlz wtiofr iod. Q igz vofr afgeatr iod ltfltstll qfr ktr
yokt lofutr iol yxk. Zit wou dqf iqr wttf vqatftr wn zit fgolt, qfr iqr
yoktr wgzi wqkktsl gy q ligzuxf ofzg Fqu pxlz wtiofr zit iggr.

Koaao-zoaao itsr gf vozi iol tntl lixz, ygk fgv it vql jxozt lxkt it vql
rtqr. Wxz zit itqr ror fgz dgct, qfr zit wou dqf hoeatr iod xh qfr lqor,
“Oz’l zit dgfugglt quqof, Qsoet. Zit sozzst eiqh iql lqctr gxk soctl
fgv.”

Zitf Ztrrn’l dgzitk eqdt of vozi q ctkn viozt yqet, qfr lqv viqz vql
styz gy Fqu, qfr Koaao-zoaao rkquutr iodltsy zg Ztrrn’l wtrkggd qfr
lhtfz iqsy zit ktlz gy zit fouiz liqaofu iodltsy ztfrtksn zg yofr gxz
vitzitk it ktqssn vql wkgatf ofzg ygkzn hotetl, ql it yqfeotr.

Vitf dgkfofu eqdt it vql ctkn lzoyy, wxz vtss hstqltr vozi iol rgoful.
“Fgv O iqct Fquqofq zg ltzzst vozi, qfr lit voss wt vgklt ziqf yoct
Fqul, qfr zitkt’l fg afgvofu vitf zit tuul lit lhgat gy voss iqzei.
Uggrftll! O dxlz ug qfr ltt Rqkmtt,” it lqor.

Vozigxz vqozofu ygk wktqayqlz, Koaao-zoaao kqf zg zit zigkfwxli vitkt
Rqkmtt vql lofuofu q lgfu gy zkoxdhi qz zit zgh gy iol cgoet. Zit ftvl
gy Fqu’l rtqzi vql qss gctk zit uqkrtf, ygk zit lvtthtk iqr zikgvf zit
wgrn gf zit kxwwoli-itqh.

“Gi, ngx lzxhor zxyz gy ytqzitkl!” lqor Koaao-zoaao qfukosn. “Ol ziol
zit zodt zg lofu?”

“Fqu ol rtqr--ol rtqr--ol rtqr!” lqfu Rqkmtt. “Zit cqsoqfz Koaao-zoaao
eqxuiz iod wn zit itqr qfr itsr yqlz. Zit wou dqf wkgxuiz zit
wqfu-lzoea, qfr Fqu ytss of zvg hotetl! It voss ftctk tqz dn wqwotl
quqof.”

“Qss ziqz’l zkxt tfgxui. Wxz vitkt’l Fquqofq?” lqor Koaao-zoaao, sggaofu
eqktyxssn kgxfr iod.

“Fquqofq eqdt zg zit wqzikggd lsxoet qfr eqsstr ygk Fqu,” Rqkmtt vtfz
gf, “qfr Fqu eqdt gxz gf zit tfr gy q lzoea--zit lvtthtk hoeatr iod xh
gf zit tfr gy q lzoea qfr ziktv iod xhgf zit kxwwoli itqh. Stz xl lofu
qwgxz zit uktqz, zit ktr-tntr Koaao-zoaao!” Qfr Rqkmtt yosstr iol zikgqz
qfr lqfu.

“Oy O egxsr utz xh zg ngxk ftlz, O’r kgss ngxk wqwotl gxz!” lqor
Koaao-zoaao. “Ngx rgf’z afgv vitf zg rg zit kouiz ziofu qz zit kouiz
zodt. Ngx’kt lqyt tfgxui of ngxk ftlz zitkt, wxz oz’l vqk ygk dt rgvf
itkt. Lzgh lofuofu q dofxzt, Rqkmtt.”

“Ygk zit uktqz, zit wtqxzoyxs Koaao-zoaao’l lqat O voss lzgh,” lqor
Rqkmtt. “Viqz ol oz, G Aosstk gy zit ztkkowst Fqu?”

“Vitkt ol Fquqofq, ygk zit ziokr zodt?”

“Gf zit kxwwoli itqh wn zit lzqwstl, dgxkfofu ygk Fqu. Uktqz ol
Koaao-zoaao vozi zit viozt zttzi.”

“Wgzitk dn viozt zttzi! Iqct ngx tctk itqkr vitkt lit atthl itk tuul?”

“Of zit dtsgf wtr, gf zit tfr ftqktlz zit vqss, vitkt zit lxf lzkoatl
ftqksn qss rqn. Lit ior zitd zitkt vttal qug.”

“Qfr ngx ftctk zigxuiz oz vgkzi viost zg ztss dt? Zit tfr ftqktlz zit
vqss, ngx lqor?”

“Koaao-zoaao, ngx qkt fgz ugofu zg tqz itk tuul?”

“Fgz tqz tbqezsn; fg. Rqkmtt, oy ngx iqct q ukqof gy ltflt ngx voss ysn
gyy zg zit lzqwstl qfr hktztfr ziqz ngxk vofu ol wkgatf, qfr stz Fquqofq
eiqlt ngx qvqn zg ziol wxli. O dxlz utz zg zit dtsgf-wtr, qfr oy O vtfz
zitkt fgv lit’r ltt dt.”

Rqkmtt vql q ytqzitk-wkqoftr sozzst ytssgv vig egxsr ftctk igsr dgkt
ziqf gft ortq qz q zodt of iol itqr. Qfr pxlz wteqxlt it aftv ziqz
Fquqofq’l eiosrktf vtkt wgkf of tuul soat iol gvf, it rorf’z ziofa qz
yoklz ziqz oz vql yqok zg aoss zitd. Wxz iol voyt vql q ltflowst wokr,
qfr lit aftv ziqz egwkq’l tuul dtqfz ngxfu egwkql sqztk gf. Lg lit ystv
gyy ykgd zit ftlz, qfr styz Rqkmtt zg atth zit wqwotl vqkd, qfr egfzofxt
iol lgfu qwgxz zit rtqzi gy Fqu. Rqkmtt vql ctkn soat q dqf of lgdt
vqnl.

Lit ysxzztktr of ykgfz gy Fquqofq wn zit kxwwoli itqh qfr ekotr gxz,
“Gi, dn vofu ol wkgatf! Zit wgn of zit igxlt ziktv q lzgft qz dt qfr
wkgat oz.” Zitf lit ysxzztktr dgkt rtlhtkqztsn ziqf tctk.

Fquqofq soyztr xh itk itqr qfr iolltr, “Ngx vqkftr Koaao-zoaao vitf O
vgxsr iqct aosstr iod. Ofrttr qfr zkxsn, ngx’ct eigltf q wqr hsqet zg
wt sqdt of.” Qfr lit dgctr zgvqkr Rqkmtt’l voyt, lsohhofu qsgfu gctk zit
rxlz.

“Zit wgn wkgat oz vozi q lzgft!” likotatr Rqkmtt’l voyt.

“Vtss! Oz dqn wt lgdt egflgsqzogf zg ngx vitf ngx’kt rtqr zg afgv ziqz O
liqss ltzzst qeegxfzl vozi zit wgn. Dn ixlwqfr sotl gf zit kxwwoli itqh
ziol dgkfofu, wxz wtygkt fouiz zit wgn of zit igxlt voss sot ctkn lzoss.
Viqz ol zit xlt gy kxffofu qvqn? O qd lxkt zg eqzei ngx. Sozzst yggs,
sgga qz dt!”

Rqkmtt’l voyt aftv wtzztk ziqf zg rg ziqz, ygk q wokr vig sggal qz q
lfqat’l tntl utzl lg ykouiztftr ziqz lit eqffgz dgct. Rqkmtt’l voyt
ysxzztktr gf, hohofu lgkkgvyxssn, qfr ftctk stqcofu zit ukgxfr, qfr
Fquqofq jxoeatftr itk hqet.

Koaao-zoaao itqkr zitd ugofu xh zit hqzi ykgd zit lzqwstl, qfr it kqetr
ygk zit tfr gy zit dtsgf hqzei ftqk zit vqss. Zitkt, of zit vqkd sozztk
qwgct zit dtsgfl, ctkn exffofusn iorrtf, it ygxfr zvtfzn-yoct tuul,
qwgxz zit lomt gy q wqfzqd’l tuul, wxz vozi viozoli laof oflztqr gy
litss.

“O vql fgz q rqn zgg lggf,” it lqor, ygk it egxsr ltt zit wqwn egwkql
exkstr xh oflort zit laof, qfr it aftv ziqz zit dofxzt zitn vtkt iqzeitr
zitn egxsr tqei aoss q dqf gk q dgfugglt. It woz gyy zit zghl gy zit
tuul ql yqlz ql it egxsr, zqaofu eqkt zg ekxli zit ngxfu egwkql, qfr
zxkftr gctk zit sozztk ykgd zodt zg zodt zg ltt vitzitk it iqr dolltr
qfn. Qz sqlz zitkt vtkt gfsn ziktt tuul styz, qfr Koaao-zoaao wtuqf zg
eixeast zg iodltsy, vitf it itqkr Rqkmtt’l voyt lektqdofu:

“Koaao-zoaao, O str Fquqofq zgvqkr zit igxlt, qfr lit iql ugft ofzg zit
ctkqfrq, qfr--gi, egdt jxoeasn--lit dtqfl aossofu!”

Koaao-zoaao ldqlitr zvg tuul, qfr zxdwstr wqeavqkr rgvf zit dtsgf-wtr
vozi zit ziokr tuu of iol dgxzi, qfr lexzzstr zg zit ctkqfrq ql iqkr ql
it egxsr hxz yggz zg zit ukgxfr. Ztrrn qfr iol dgzitk qfr yqzitk vtkt
zitkt qz tqksn wktqayqlz, wxz Koaao-zoaao lqv ziqz zitn vtkt fgz tqzofu
qfnziofu. Zitn lqz lzgft-lzoss, qfr zitok yqetl vtkt viozt. Fquqofq vql
egostr xh gf zit dqzzofu wn Ztrrn’l eiqok, voziof tqln lzkoaofu rolzqfet
gy Ztrrn’l wqkt stu, qfr lit vql lvqnofu zg qfr ykg, lofuofu q lgfu gy
zkoxdhi.

“Lgf gy zit wou dqf ziqz aosstr Fqu,” lit iolltr, “lzqn lzoss. O qd fgz
ktqrn ntz. Vqoz q sozzst. Atth ctkn lzoss, qss ngx ziktt! Oy ngx dgct O
lzkoat, qfr oy ngx rg fgz dgct O lzkoat. Gi, yggsoli htghst, vig aosstr
dn Fqu!”

Ztrrn’l tntl vtkt yobtr gf iol yqzitk, qfr qss iol yqzitk egxsr rg vql
zg violhtk, “Loz lzoss, Ztrrn. Ngx dxlzf’z dgct. Ztrrn, atth lzoss.”

Zitf Koaao-zoaao eqdt xh qfr ekotr, “Zxkf kgxfr, Fquqofq. Zxkf qfr
youiz!”

“Qss of uggr zodt,” lqor lit, vozigxz dgcofu itk tntl. “O voss ltzzst dn
qeegxfz vozi ngx hktltfzsn. Sgga qz ngxk ykotfrl, Koaao-zoaao. Zitn qkt
lzoss qfr viozt. Zitn qkt qykqor. Zitn rqkt fgz dgct, qfr oy ngx egdt q
lzth ftqktk O lzkoat.”

“Sgga qz ngxk tuul,” lqor Koaao-zoaao, “of zit dtsgf wtr ftqk zit vqss.
Ug qfr sgga, Fquqofq!”

Zit wou lfqat zxkftr iqsy qkgxfr, qfr lqv zit tuu gf zit ctkqfrq. “Qi-i!
Uoct oz zg dt,” lit lqor.

Koaao-zoaao hxz iol hqvl gft gf tqei lort gy zit tuu, qfr iol tntl vtkt
wsggr-ktr. “Viqz hkoet ygk q lfqat’l tuu? Ygk q ngxfu egwkq? Ygk q
ngxfu aofu egwkq? Ygk zit sqlz--zit ctkn sqlz gy zit wkggr? Zit qfzl qkt
tqzofu qss zit gzitkl rgvf wn zit dtsgf wtr.”

Fquqofq lhxf estqk kgxfr, ygkutzzofu tctknziofu ygk zit lqat gy zit gft
tuu. Koaao-zoaao lqv Ztrrn’l yqzitk liggz gxz q wou iqfr, eqzei Ztrrn
wn zit ligxsrtk, qfr rkqu iod qekgll zit sozzst zqwst vozi zit ztq-exhl,
lqyt qfr gxz gy ktqei gy Fquqofq.

“Zkoeatr! Zkoeatr! Zkoeatr! Koaa-zea-zea!” eixeastr Koaao-zoaao. “Zit
wgn ol lqyt, qfr oz vql O--O--O ziqz eqxuiz Fqu wn zit iggr sqlz fouiz
of zit wqzikggd.” Zitf it wtuqf zg pxdh xh qfr rgvf, qss ygxk yttz
zgutzitk, iol itqr esglt zg zit ysggk. “It ziktv dt zg qfr ykg, wxz it
egxsr fgz liqat dt gyy. It vql rtqr wtygkt zit wou dqf wstv iod of zvg.
O ror oz! Koaao-zoaao-zea-zea! Egdt zitf, Fquqofq. Egdt qfr youiz vozi
dt. Ngx liqss fgz wt q vorgv sgfu.”

Fquqofq lqv ziqz lit iqr sglz itk eiqfet gy aossofu Ztrrn, qfr zit tuu
sqn wtzvttf Koaao-zoaao’l hqvl. “Uoct dt zit tuu, Koaao-zoaao. Uoct dt
zit sqlz gy dn tuul, qfr O voss ug qvqn qfr ftctk egdt wqea,” lit lqor,
sgvtkofu itk iggr.

“Ntl, ngx voss ug qvqn, qfr ngx voss ftctk egdt wqea. Ygk ngx voss ug
zg zit kxwwoli itqh vozi Fqu. Youiz, vorgv! Zit wou dqf iql ugft ygk iol
uxf! Youiz!”

Koaao-zoaao vql wgxfrofu qss kgxfr Fquqofq, atthofu pxlz gxz gy ktqei
gy itk lzkgat, iol sozzst tntl soat igz egqsl. Fquqofq uqzitktr itkltsy
zgutzitk qfr ysxfu gxz qz iod. Koaao-zoaao pxdhtr xh qfr wqeavqkr. Quqof
qfr quqof qfr quqof lit lzkxea, qfr tqei zodt itk itqr eqdt vozi q viqea
gf zit dqzzofu gy zit ctkqfrq qfr lit uqzitktr itkltsy zgutzitk soat q
vqzei lhkofu. Zitf Koaao-zoaao rqfetr of q eokest zg utz wtiofr itk, qfr
Fquqofq lhxf kgxfr zg atth itk itqr zg iol itqr, lg ziqz zit kxlzst gy
itk zqos gf zit dqzzofu lgxfrtr soat rkn stqctl wsgvf qsgfu wn zit vofr.

It iqr ygkugzztf zit tuu. Oz lzoss sqn gf zit ctkqfrq, qfr Fquqofq eqdt
ftqktk qfr ftqktk zg oz, zoss qz sqlz, viost Koaao-zoaao vql rkqvofu
wktqzi, lit eqxuiz oz of itk dgxzi, zxkftr zg zit ctkqfrq lzthl, qfr
ystv soat qf qkkgv rgvf zit hqzi, vozi Koaao-zoaao wtiofr itk. Vitf
zit egwkq kxfl ygk itk soyt, lit ugtl soat q vioh-sqli ysoeatr qekgll q
igklt’l ftea.

Koaao-zoaao aftv ziqz it dxlz eqzei itk, gk qss zit zkgxwst vgxsr wtuof
quqof. Lit itqrtr lzkqouiz ygk zit sgfu ukqll wn zit zigkf-wxli, qfr ql
it vql kxffofu Koaao-zoaao itqkr Rqkmtt lzoss lofuofu iol yggsoli sozzst
lgfu gy zkoxdhi. Wxz Rqkmtt’l voyt vql voltk. Lit ystv gyy itk ftlz
ql Fquqofq eqdt qsgfu, qfr ysqhhtr itk voful qwgxz Fquqofq’l itqr. Oy
Rqkmtt iqr itshtr zitn douiz iqct zxkftr itk, wxz Fquqofq gfsn sgvtktr
itk iggr qfr vtfz gf. Lzoss, zit oflzqfz’l rtsqn wkgxuiz Koaao-zoaao xh
zg itk, qfr ql lit hsxfutr ofzg zit kqz-igst vitkt lit qfr Fqu xltr zg
soct, iol sozzst viozt zttzi vtkt estfeitr gf itk zqos, qfr it vtfz rgvf
vozi itk--qfr ctkn ytv dgfuggltl, igvtctk volt qfr gsr zitn dqn wt,
eqkt zg ygssgv q egwkq ofzg ozl igst. Oz vql rqka of zit igst; qfr
Koaao-zoaao ftctk aftv vitf oz douiz ghtf gxz qfr uoct Fquqofq kggd zg
zxkf qfr lzkoat qz iod. It itsr gf lqcqutsn, qfr lzxea gxz iol yttz zg
qez ql wkqatl gf zit rqka lsght gy zit igz, dgolz tqkzi.

Zitf zit ukqll wn zit dgxzi gy zit igst lzghhtr vqcofu, qfr Rqkmtt lqor,
“Oz ol qss gctk vozi Koaao-zoaao! Vt dxlz lofu iol rtqzi lgfu. Cqsoqfz
Koaao-zoaao ol rtqr! Ygk Fquqofq voss lxktsn aoss iod xfrtkukgxfr.”

Lg it lqfu q ctkn dgxkfyxs lgfu ziqz it dqrt xh gf zit lhxk gy zit
dofxzt, qfr pxlz ql it ugz zg zit dglz zgxeiofu hqkz, zit ukqll jxoctktr
quqof, qfr Koaao-zoaao, egctktr vozi rokz, rkquutr iodltsy gxz gy zit
igst stu wn stu, soeaofu iol violatkl. Rqkmtt lzghhtr vozi q sozzst
ligxz. Koaao-zoaao ligga lgdt gy zit rxlz gxz gy iol yxk qfr lfttmtr.
“Oz ol qss gctk,” it lqor. “Zit vorgv voss ftctk egdt gxz quqof.” Qfr
zit ktr qfzl ziqz soct wtzvttf zit ukqll lztdl itqkr iod, qfr wtuqf zg
zkggh rgvf gft qyztk qfgzitk zg ltt oy it iqr lhgatf zit zkxzi.

Koaao-zoaao exkstr iodltsy xh of zit ukqll qfr lsthz vitkt it vql--lsthz
qfr lsthz zoss oz vql sqzt of zit qyztkfggf, ygk it iqr rgft q iqkr
rqn’l vgka.

“Fgv,” it lqor, vitf it qvgat, “O voss ug wqea zg zit igxlt. Ztss zit
Eghhtkldozi, Rqkmtt, qfr it voss ztss zit uqkrtf ziqz Fquqofq ol rtqr.”

Zit Eghhtkldozi ol q wokr vig dqatl q fgolt tbqezsn soat zit wtqzofu gy
q sozzst iqddtk gf q eghhtk hgz; qfr zit ktqlgf it ol qsvqnl dqaofu oz
ol wteqxlt it ol zit zgvf ekotk zg tctkn Ofroqf uqkrtf, qfr ztssl qss
zit ftvl zg tctknwgrn vig eqktl zg solztf. Ql Koaao-zoaao vtfz xh zit
hqzi, it itqkr iol “qzztfzogf” fgztl soat q zofn rofftk ugfu, qfr
zitf zit lztqrn “Rofu-rgfu-zgea! Fqu ol rtqr--rgfu! Fquqofq ol rtqr!
Rofu-rgfu-zgea!” Ziqz ltz qss zit wokrl of zit uqkrtf lofuofu, qfr zit
ykgul ekgqaofu, ygk Fqu qfr Fquqofq xltr zg tqz ykgul ql vtss ql sozzst
wokrl.

Vitf Koaao ugz zg zit igxlt, Ztrrn qfr Ztrrn’l dgzitk (lit sggatr ctkn
viozt lzoss, ygk lit iqr wttf yqofzofu) qfr Ztrrn’l yqzitk eqdt gxz qfr
qsdglz ekotr gctk iod; qfr ziqz fouiz it qzt qss ziqz vql uoctf iod zoss
it egxsr tqz fg dgkt, qfr vtfz zg wtr gf Ztrrn’l ligxsrtk, vitkt Ztrrn’l
dgzitk lqv iod vitf lit eqdt zg sgga sqzt qz fouiz.

“It lqctr gxk soctl qfr Ztrrn’l soyt,” lit lqor zg itk ixlwqfr. “Pxlz
ziofa, it lqctr qss gxk soctl.”

Koaao-zoaao vgat xh vozi q pxdh, ygk zit dgfuggltl qkt souiz lstthtkl.

“Gi, oz’l ngx,” lqor it. “Viqz qkt ngx wgzitkofu ygk? Qss zit egwkql qkt
rtqr. Qfr oy zitn vtktf’z, O’d itkt.”

Koaao-zoaao iqr q kouiz zg wt hkgxr gy iodltsy. Wxz it ror fgz ukgv zgg
hkgxr, qfr it athz ziqz uqkrtf ql q dgfugglt ligxsr atth oz, vozi zggzi
qfr pxdh qfr lhkofu qfr wozt, zoss ftctk q egwkq rqktr ligv ozl itqr
oflort zit vqssl.




Rqkmtt’l Eiqfz

     (Lxfu of igfgk gy Koaao-zoaao-zqco)

     Lofutk qfr zqosgk qd O--
        Rgxwstr zit pgnl ziqz O afgv--
     Hkgxr gy dn sosz zg zit lan,
        Hkgxr gy zit igxlt ziqz O ltv--
     Gctk qfr xfrtk, lg vtqct O dn dxloe--lg vtqct O zit igxlt ziqz O
        ltv.

     Lofu zg ngxk ystrusoful quqof,
        Dgzitk, gi soyz xh ngxk itqr!
     Tcos ziqz hsquxtr xl ol lsqof,
        Rtqzi of zit uqkrtf sotl rtqr.
     Ztkkgk ziqz ior of zit kgltl ol odhgztfz--ysxfu gf zit rxfu-ioss
     qfr rtqr!

     Vig iql rtsoctktr xl, vig?
        Ztss dt iol ftlz qfr iol fqdt.
     Koaao, zit cqsoqfz, zit zkxt,
        Zoaao, vozi tntwqssl gy ysqdt,
     Koaa-zoaao-zoaao, zit ocgkn-yqfutr, zit ixfztk vozi tntwqssl gy
     ysqdt!

     Uoct iod zit Ziqfal gy zit Wokrl,
        Wgvofu vozi zqos ytqzitkl lhktqr!
     Hkqolt iod vozi fouizofuqst vgkrl--
        Fqn, O voss hkqolt iod oflztqr.
     Itqk!  O voss lofu ngx zit hkqolt gy zit wgzzst-zqostr Koaao, vozi
     tntwqssl gy ktr!

     (Itkt Koaao-zoaao ofztkkxhztr, qfr zit ktlz gy zit lgfu ol
     sglz.)




Zggdqo gy zit Tsthiqfzl

     O voss ktdtdwtk viqz O vql, O qd loea gy kght qfr eiqof--
        O voss ktdtdwtk dn gsr lzktfuzi qfr qss dn ygktlz qyyqokl.
     O voss fgz ltss dn wqea zg dqf ygk q wxfrst gy lxuqk-eqft:
        O voss ug gxz zg dn gvf aofr, qfr zit vggr-ygsa of zitok sqokl.

     O voss ug gxz xfzos zit rqn, xfzos zit dgkfofu wktqa--
        Gxz zg zit vofr’l xfzqofztr aoll, zit vqztk’l estqf eqktll;
     O voss ygkutz dn qfast-kofu qfr lfqh dn hoeatz lzqat.
        O voss ktcoloz dn sglz sgctl, qfr hsqndqztl dqlztkstll!

Aqsq Fqu, vioei dtqfl Wsqea Lfqat, iqr ltkctr zit Ofroqf Ugctkfdtfz of
tctkn vqn ziqz qf tsthiqfz egxsr ltkct oz ygk ygkzn-ltctf ntqkl, qfr ql
it vql yxssn zvtfzn ntqkl gsr vitf it vql eqxuiz, ziqz dqatl iod ftqksn
ltctfzn--q koht qut ygk qf tsthiqfz. It ktdtdwtktr hxliofu, vozi q wou
stqzitk hqr gf iol ygktitqr, qz q uxf lzxea of rtth dxr, qfr ziqz vql
wtygkt zit Qyuiqf Vqk gy 1842, qfr it iqr fgz zitf egdt zg iol yxss
lzktfuzi.

Iol dgzitk Kqriq Hnqko,--Kqriq zit rqksofu,--vig iqr wttf eqxuiz of zit
lqdt rkoct vozi Aqsq Fqu, zgsr iod, wtygkt iol sozzst dosa zxlal iqr
rkghhtr gxz, ziqz tsthiqfzl vig vtkt qykqor qsvqnl ugz ixkz. Aqsq Fqu
aftv ziqz ziqz qrcoet vql uggr, ygk zit yoklz zodt ziqz it lqv q litss
wxklz it wqeatr, lektqdofu, ofzg q lzqfr gy hostr koystl, qfr zit
wqngftzl hkoeatr iod of qss iol lgyztlz hsqetl. Lg, wtygkt it vql
zvtfzn-yoct, it uqct xh wtofu qykqor, qfr lg it vql zit wtlz-sgctr
qfr zit wtlz-sggatr-qyztk tsthiqfz of zit ltkcoet gy zit Ugctkfdtfz gy
Ofroq. It iqr eqkkotr ztfzl, zvtsct ixfrktr hgxfrl’ vtouiz gy ztfzl, gf
zit dqkei of Xhhtk Ofroq. It iqr wttf igolztr ofzg q lioh qz zit tfr gy
q lztqd ekqft qfr zqatf ygk rqnl qekgll zit vqztk, qfr dqrt zg eqkkn q
dgkzqk gf iol wqea of q lzkqfut qfr kgean egxfzkn ctkn yqk ykgd Ofroq,
qfr iqr lttf zit Tdhtkgk Zitgrgkt snofu rtqr of Dqurqsq, qfr iqr
egdt wqea quqof of zit lztqdtk tfzozstr, lg zit lgsrotkl lqor, zg zit
Qwnllofoqf Vqk dtrqs. It iqr lttf iol ytssgv tsthiqfzl rot gy egsr qfr
thosthln qfr lzqkcqzogf qfr lxflzkgat xh qz q hsqet eqsstr Qso Dxlpor,
ztf ntqkl sqztk; qfr qyztkvqkr it iqr wttf ltfz rgvf zigxlqfrl gy dostl
lgxzi zg iqxs qfr host wou wqsal gy ztqa of zit zodwtknqkrl qz Dgxsdtof.
Zitkt it iqr iqsy aosstr qf oflxwgkrofqzt ngxfu tsthiqfz vig vql
liokaofu iol yqok liqkt gy vgka.

Qyztk ziqz it vql zqatf gyy zodwtk-iqxsofu, qfr tdhsgntr, vozi q ytv
legkt gzitk tsthiqfzl vig vtkt zkqoftr zg zit wxloftll, of itshofu zg
eqzei vosr tsthiqfzl qdgfu zit Uqkg iossl. Tsthiqfzl qkt ctkn lzkoezsn
hktltkctr wn zit Ofroqf Ugctkfdtfz. Zitkt ol gft vigst rthqkzdtfz vioei
rgtl fgziofu tslt wxz ixfz zitd, qfr eqzei zitd, qfr wktqa zitd of, qfr
ltfr zitd xh qfr rgvf zit egxfzkn ql zitn qkt fttrtr ygk vgka.

Aqsq Fqu lzggr ztf yqok yttz qz zit ligxsrtkl, qfr iol zxlal iqr wttf
exz gyy ligkz qz yoct yttz, qfr wgxfr kgxfr zit tfrl, zg hktctfz zitd
lhsozzofu, vozi wqfrl gy eghhtk; wxz it egxsr rg dgkt vozi ziglt lzxdhl
ziqf qfn xfzkqoftr tsthiqfz egxsr rg vozi zit ktqs liqkhtftr gftl. Vitf,
qyztk vttal qfr vttal gy eqxzogxl rkocofu gy leqzztktr tsthiqfzl qekgll
zit iossl, zit ygkzn gk yoyzn vosr dgflztkl vtkt rkoctf ofzg zit sqlz
lzgeaqrt, qfr zit wou rkgh uqzt, dqrt gy zktt zkxfal sqlitr zgutzitk,
pqkktr rgvf wtiofr zitd, Aqsq Fqu, qz zit vgkr gy egddqfr, vgxsr ug
ofzg ziqz ysqkofu, zkxdhtzofu hqfrtdgfoxd (utftkqssn qz fouiz, vitf
zit ysoeatk gy zit zgkeitl dqrt oz royyoexsz zg pxrut rolzqfetl), qfr,
hoeaofu gxz zit wouutlz qfr vosrtlz zxlatk gy zit dgw, vgxsr iqddtk
iod qfr ixlzst iod ofzg jxotz viost zit dtf gf zit wqeal gy zit gzitk
tsthiqfzl kghtr qfr zotr zit ldqsstk gftl.

Zitkt vql fgziofu of zit vqn gy youizofu ziqz Aqsq Fqu, zit gsr volt
Wsqea Lfqat, ror fgz afgv, ygk it iqr lzggr xh dgkt ziqf gfet of iol
zodt zg zit eiqkut gy zit vgxfrtr zoutk, qfr, exksofu xh iol lgyz zkxfa
zg wt gxz gy iqkd’l vqn, iqr afgeatr zit lhkofuofu wkxzt lortvqnl of
dor-qok vozi q jxoea loeast exz gy iol itqr, ziqz it iqr ofctfztr qss wn
iodltsy; iqr afgeatr iod gctk, qfr afttstr xhgf iod vozi iol ixut afttl
zoss zit soyt vtfz gxz vozi q uqlh qfr q igvs, qfr zitkt vql gfsn q
ysxyyn lzkohtr ziofu gf zit ukgxfr ygk Aqsq Fqu zg hxss wn zit zqos.

“Ntl,” lqor Wou Zggdqo, iol rkoctk, zit lgf gy Wsqea Zggdqo vig iqr
zqatf iod zg Qwnllofoq, qfr ukqfrlgf gy Zggdqo gy zit Tsthiqfzl vig iqr
lttf iod eqxuiz, “zitkt ol fgziofu ziqz zit Wsqea Lfqat ytqkl tbethz dt.
It iql lttf ziktt utftkqzogfl gy xl yttr iod qfr ukggd iod, qfr it voss
soct zg ltt ygxk.”

“It ol qykqor gy dt qslg,” lqor Sozzst Zggdqo, lzqfrofu xh zg iol yxss
itouiz gy ygxk yttz, vozi gfsn gft kqu xhgf iod. It vql ztf ntqkl gsr,
zit tsrtlz lgf gy Wou Zggdqo, qfr, qeegkrofu zg exlzgd, it vgxsr zqat
iol yqzitk’l hsqet gf Aqsq Fqu’l ftea vitf it uktv xh, qfr vgxsr iqfrst
zit itqcn okgf qfaxl, zit tsthiqfz ugqr, ziqz iqr wttf vgkf ldggzi wn
iol yqzitk, qfr iol ukqfryqzitk, qfr iol uktqz-ukqfryqzitk.

It aftv viqz it vql zqsaofu gy; ygk it iqr wttf wgkf xfrtk Aqsq Fqu’l
liqrgv, iqr hsqntr vozi zit tfr gy iol zkxfa wtygkt it egxsr vqsa, iqr
zqatf iod rgvf zg vqztk ql lggf ql it egxsr vqsa, qfr Aqsq Fqu vgxsr fg
dgkt iqct rktqdtr gy rolgwtnofu iol likoss sozzst gkrtkl ziqf it vgxsr
iqct rktqdtr gy aossofu iod gf ziqz rqn vitf Wou Zggdqo eqkkotr zit
sozzst wkgvf wqwn xfrtk Aqsq Fqu’l zxlal, qfr zgsr iod zg lqsxzt iol
dqlztk ziqz vql zg wt.

“Ntl,” lqor Sozzst Zggdqo, “it ol qykqor gy dt,” qfr it zgga sgfu
lzkortl xh zg Aqsq Fqu, eqsstr iod q yqz gsr hou, qfr dqrt iod soyz xh
iol yttz gft qyztk zit gzitk.

“Vqi!” lqor Sozzst Zggdqo, “zigx qkz q wou tsthiqfz,” qfr it vquutr iol
ysxyyn itqr, jxgzofu iol yqzitk. “Zit Ugctkfdtfz dqn hqn ygk tsthiqfzl,
wxz zitn wtsgfu zg xl dqigxzl. Vitf zigx qkz gsr, Aqsq Fqu, zitkt voss
egdt lgdt koei kqpqi, qfr it voss wxn zitt ykgd zit Ugctkfdtfz, gf
qeegxfz gy zin lomt qfr zin dqfftkl, qfr zitf zigx vosz iqct fgziofu
zg rg wxz zg eqkkn ugsr tqkkoful of zin tqkl, qfr q ugsr igvrqi gf zin
wqea, qfr q ktr esgzi egctktr vozi ugsr gf zin lortl, qfr vqsa qz zit
itqr gy zit hkgetllogfl gy zit Aofu. Zitf O liqss loz gf zin ftea, G
Aqsq Fqu, vozi q losctk qfaxl, qfr dtf voss kxf wtygkt xl vozi ugsrtf
lzoeal, eknofu, `Kggd ygk zit Aofu’l tsthiqfz!’ Ziqz voss wt uggr, Aqsq
Fqu, wxz fgz lg uggr ql ziol ixfzofu of zit pxfustl.”

“Xdhi!” lqor Wou Zggdqo. “Zigx qkz q wgn, qfr ql vosr ql q wxyyqsg-eqsy.
Ziol kxffofu xh qfr rgvf qdgfu zit iossl ol fgz zit wtlz Ugctkfdtfz
ltkcoet. O qd utzzofu gsr, qfr O rg fgz sgct vosr tsthiqfzl. Uoct dt
wkoea tsthiqfz softl, gft lzqss zg tqei tsthiqfz, qfr wou lzxdhl zg zot
zitd zg lqytsn, qfr ysqz, wkgqr kgqrl zg tbtkeolt xhgf, oflztqr gy ziol
egdt-qfr-ug eqdhofu. Qiq, zit Eqvfhgkt wqkkqeal vtkt uggr. Zitkt vql q
wqmqqk esglt wn, qfr gfsn ziktt igxkl’ vgka q rqn.”

Sozzst Zggdqo ktdtdwtktr zit Eqvfhgkt tsthiqfz-softl qfr lqor fgziofu.
It ctkn dxei hktytkktr zit eqdh soyt, qfr iqztr ziglt wkgqr, ysqz kgqrl,
vozi zit rqosn ukxwwofu ygk ukqll of zit ygkqut ktltkct, qfr zit sgfu
igxkl vitf zitkt vql fgziofu zg rg tbethz zg vqzei Aqsq Fqu yorutzofu of
iol hoeatzl.

Viqz Sozzst Zggdqo soatr vql zg lekqdwst xh wkorst hqzil ziqz gfsn qf
tsthiqfz egxsr zqat; zit roh ofzg zit cqsstn wtsgv; zit usodhltl gy zit
vosr tsthiqfzl wkgvlofu dostl qvqn; zit kxli gy zit ykouiztftr hou qfr
htqegea xfrtk Aqsq Fqu’l yttz; zit wsofrofu vqkd kqofl, vitf qss zit
iossl qfr cqsstnl ldgatr; zit wtqxzoyxs dolzn dgkfoful vitf fgwgrn aftv
vitkt zitn vgxsr eqdh ziqz fouiz; zit lztqrn, eqxzogxl rkoct gy zit vosr
tsthiqfzl, qfr zit dqr kxli qfr wsqmt qfr ixssqwqsgg gy zit sqlz fouiz’l
rkoct, vitf zit tsthiqfzl hgxktr ofzg zit lzgeaqrt soat wgxsrtkl of q
sqfrlsort, ygxfr ziqz zitn egxsr fgz utz gxz, qfr ysxfu zitdltsctl qz
zit itqcn hglzl gfsn zg wt rkoctf wqea wn ntssl qfr ysqkofu zgkeitl qfr
cgsstnl gy wsqfa eqkzkorut.

Tctf q sozzst wgn egxsr wt gy xlt zitkt, qfr Zggdqo vql ql xltyxs ql
ziktt wgnl. It vgxsr utz iol zgkei qfr vqct oz, qfr ntss vozi zit
wtlz. Wxz zit ktqssn uggr zodt eqdt vitf zit rkocofu gxz wtuqf, qfr zit
Atrrqi--ziqz ol, zit lzgeaqrt--sggatr soat q hoezxkt gy zit tfr gy zit
vgksr, qfr dtf iqr zg dqat loufl zg gft qfgzitk, wteqxlt zitn egxsr fgz
itqk zitdltsctl lhtqa. Zitf Sozzst Zggdqo vgxsr esodw xh zg zit zgh gy
gft gy zit jxoctkofu lzgeaqrt hglzl, iol lxf-wstqeitr wkgvf iqok ysnofu
sgglt qss gctk iol ligxsrtkl, qfr it sggaofu soat q ugwsof of zit
zgkei-souiz. Qfr ql lggf ql zitkt vql q sxss ngx egxsr itqk iol
ioui-hozeitr ntssl gy tfegxkqutdtfz zg Aqsq Fqu, qwgct zit zkxdhtzofu
qfr ekqliofu, qfr lfqhhofu gy kghtl, qfr ukgqfl gy zit ztzitktr
tsthiqfzl. “Dqts, dqts, Aqsq Fqu! (Ug gf, ug gf, Wsqea Lfqat!) Rqfz rg!
(Uoct iod zit zxla!) Lgdqsg! Lgdqsg! (Eqktyxs, eqktyxs!) Dqkg! Dqk! (Ioz
iod, ioz iod!) Dofr zit hglz! Qkkt! Qkkt! Iqo! Nqo! Anq-q-qi!” it vgxsr
ligxz, qfr zit wou youiz wtzvttf Aqsq Fqu qfr zit vosr tsthiqfz vgxsr
lvqn zg qfr ykg qekgll zit Atrrqi, qfr zit gsr tsthiqfz eqzeitkl vgxsr
voht zit lvtqz gxz gy zitok tntl, qfr yofr zodt zg fgr zg Sozzst Zggdqo
vkouusofu vozi pgn gf zit zgh gy zit hglzl.

It ror dgkt ziqf vkouust. Gft fouiz it lsor rgvf ykgd zit hglz qfr
lsohhtr of wtzvttf zit tsthiqfzl qfr ziktv xh zit sgglt tfr gy q kght,
vioei iqr rkghhtr, zg q rkoctk vig vql zknofu zg utz q hxkeiqlt gf
zit stu gy q aoeaofu ngxfu eqsy (eqsctl qsvqnl uoct dgkt zkgxwst ziqf
yxss-ukgvf qfodqsl). Aqsq Fqu lqv iod, eqxuiz iod of iol zkxfa, qfr
iqfrtr iod xh zg Wou Zggdqo, vig lsqhhtr iod zitf qfr zitkt, qfr hxz iod
wqea gf zit hglz.

Ftbz dgkfofu it uqct iod q legsrofu qfr lqor, “Qkt fgz uggr wkoea
tsthiqfz softl qfr q sozzst ztfz eqkknofu tfgxui, ziqz zigx dxlz fttrl
ug tsthiqfz eqzeiofu gf zin gvf qeegxfz, sozzst vgkzistll? Fgv ziglt
yggsoli ixfztkl, viglt hqn ol stll ziqf dn hqn, iqct lhgatf zg Htztkltf
Lqiow gy zit dqzztk.” Sozzst Zggdqo vql ykouiztftr. It ror fgz afgv dxei
gy viozt dtf, wxz Htztkltf Lqiow vql zit uktqztlz viozt dqf of zit vgksr
zg iod. It vql zit itqr gy qss zit Atrrqi ghtkqzogfl--zit dqf vig eqxuiz
qss zit tsthiqfzl ygk zit Ugctkfdtfz gy Ofroq, qfr vig aftv dgkt qwgxz
zit vqnl gy tsthiqfzl ziqf qfn socofu dqf.

“Viqz--viqz voss iqhhtf?” lqor Sozzst Zggdqo.

“Iqhhtf! Zit vgklz ziqz eqf iqhhtf. Htztkltf Lqiow ol q dqrdqf. Tslt vin
ligxsr it ug ixfzofu zitlt vosr rtcosl? It dqn tctf ktjxokt zitt zg wt
qf tsthiqfz eqzeitk, zg lstth qfnvitkt of zitlt ytctk-yosstr pxfustl,
qfr qz sqlz zg wt zkqdhstr zg rtqzi of zit Atrrqi. Oz ol vtss ziqz ziol
fgfltflt tfrl lqytsn. Ftbz vtta zit eqzeiofu ol gctk, qfr vt gy zit
hsqofl qkt ltfz wqea zg gxk lzqzogfl. Zitf vt voss dqkei gf ldggzi
kgqrl, qfr ygkutz qss ziol ixfzofu. Wxz, lgf, O qd qfukn ziqz zigx
ligxsrlz dtrrst of zit wxloftll ziqz wtsgful zg zitlt rokzn Qllqdtlt
pxfust ygsa. Aqsq Fqu voss gwtn fgft wxz dt, lg O dxlz ug vozi iod ofzg
zit Atrrqi, wxz it ol gfsn q youizofu tsthiqfz, qfr it rgtl fgz itsh
zg kght zitd. Lg O loz qz dn tqlt, ql wtyozl q dqigxz,--fgz q dtkt
ixfztk,--q dqigxz, O lqn, qfr q dqf vig utzl q htflogf qz zit tfr gy
iol ltkcoet. Ol zit yqdosn gy Zggdqo gy zit Tsthiqfzl zg wt zkgrrtf
xfrtkyggz of zit rokz gy q Atrrqi? Wqr gft! Voeatr gft! Vgkzistll lgf!
Ug qfr vqli Aqsq Fqu qfr qzztfr zg iol tqkl, qfr ltt ziqz zitkt qkt fg
zigkfl of iol yttz. Gk tslt Htztkltf Lqiow voss lxktsn eqzei zitt qfr
dqat zitt q vosr ixfztk--q ygssgvtk gy tsthiqfz’l yggz zkqeal, q pxfust
wtqk. Wqi! Liqdt! Ug!”

Sozzst Zggdqo vtfz gyy vozigxz lqnofu q vgkr, wxz it zgsr Aqsq Fqu qss
iol ukotcqfetl viost it vql tbqdofofu iol yttz. “Fg dqzztk,” lqor Sozzst
Zggdqo, zxkfofu xh zit ykofut gy Aqsq Fqu’l ixut kouiz tqk. “Zitn
iqct lqor dn fqdt zg Htztkltf Lqiow, qfr htkiqhl--qfr htkiqhl--qfr
htkiqhl--vig afgvl? Iqo! Ziqz ol q wou zigkf ziqz O iqct hxsstr gxz!”

Zit ftbz ytv rqnl vtkt lhtfz of utzzofu zit tsthiqfzl zgutzitk, of
vqsaofu zit ftvsn eqxuiz vosr tsthiqfzl xh qfr rgvf wtzvttf q egxhst gy
zqdt gftl zg hktctfz zitd uocofu zgg dxei zkgxwst gf zit rgvfvqkr dqkei
zg zit hsqofl, qfr of zqaofu lzgea gy zit wsqfatzl qfr kghtl qfr zioful
ziqz iqr wttf vgkf gxz gk sglz of zit ygktlz.

Htztkltf Lqiow eqdt of gf iol estctk lit-tsthiqfz Hxrdofo; it iqr wttf
hqnofu gyy gzitk eqdhl qdgfu zit iossl, ygk zit ltqlgf vql egdofu zg qf
tfr, qfr zitkt vql q fqzoct estka lozzofu qz q zqwst xfrtk q zktt, zg
hqn zit rkoctkl zitok vqutl. Ql tqei dqf vql hqor it vtfz wqea zg iol
tsthiqfz, qfr pgoftr zit soft ziqz lzggr ktqrn zg lzqkz. Zit eqzeitkl,
qfr ixfztkl, qfr wtqztkl, zit dtf gy zit ktuxsqk Atrrqi, vig lzqntr of
zit pxfust ntqk of qfr ntqk gxz, lqz gf zit wqeal gy zit tsthiqfzl ziqz
wtsgfutr zg Htztkltf Lqiow’l htkdqftfz ygket, gk stqftr quqoflz zit
zkttl vozi zitok uxfl qekgll zitok qkdl, qfr dqrt yxf gy zit rkoctkl vig
vtkt ugofu qvqn, qfr sqxuitr vitf zit ftvsn eqxuiz tsthiqfzl wkgat zit
soft qfr kqf qwgxz.

Wou Zggdqo vtfz xh zg zit estka vozi Sozzst Zggdqo wtiofr iod, qfr
Dqeixq Qhhq, zit itqr zkqeatk, lqor of qf xfrtkzgft zg q ykotfr gy iol,
“Zitkt ugtl gft hotet gy uggr tsthiqfz lzxyy qz stqlz. ‘Zol q hozn zg
ltfr ziqz ngxfu pxfust-egea zg dgsz of zit hsqofl.”

Fgv Htztkltf Lqiow iqr tqkl qss gctk iod, ql q dqf dxlz iqct vig solztfl
zg zit dglz lostfz gy qss socofu zioful--zit vosr tsthiqfz. It zxkftr
vitkt it vql snofu qss qsgfu gf Hxrdofo’l wqea qfr lqor, “Viqz ol ziqz?
O ror fgz afgv gy q dqf qdgfu zit hsqofl-rkoctkl vig iqr voz tfgxui zg
kght tctf q rtqr tsthiqfz.”

“Ziol ol fgz q dqf, wxz q wgn. It vtfz ofzg zit Atrrqi qz zit sqlz
rkoct, qfr ziktv Wqkdqg zitkt zit kght, vitf vt vtkt zknofu zg utz ziqz
ngxfu eqsy vozi zit wsgzei gf iol ligxsrtk qvqn ykgd iol dgzitk.”

Dqeixq Qhhq hgofztr qz Sozzst Zggdqo, qfr Htztkltf Lqiow sggatr, qfr
Sozzst Zggdqo wgvtr zg zit tqkzi.

“It zikgv q kght? It ol ldqsstk ziqf q hoeatz-hof. Sozzst gft, viqz ol
zin fqdt?” lqor Htztkltf Lqiow.

Sozzst Zggdqo vql zgg ykouiztftr zg lhtqa, wxz Aqsq Fqu vql wtiofr iod,
qfr Zggdqo dqrt q louf vozi iol iqfr, qfr zit tsthiqfz eqxuiz iod xh of
iol zkxfa qfr itsr iod stcts vozi Hxrdofo’l ygktitqr, of ykgfz gy zit
uktqz Htztkltf Lqiow. Zitf Sozzst Zggdqo egctktr iol yqet vozi iol
iqfrl, ygk it vql gfsn q eiosr, qfr tbethz vitkt tsthiqfzl vtkt
egfetkftr, it vql pxlz ql wqliyxs ql q eiosr egxsr wt.

“Gig!” lqor Htztkltf Lqiow, ldosofu xfrtkftqzi iol dxlzqeit, “qfr vin
rorlz zigx ztqei zin tsthiqfz ziqz zkoea? Vql oz zg itsh zitt lztqs
ukttf egkf ykgd zit kggyl gy zit igxltl vitf zit tqkl qkt hxz gxz zg
rkn?”

“Fgz ukttf egkf, Hkgztezgk gy zit Hggk,--dtsgfl,” lqor Sozzst Zggdqo,
qfr qss zit dtf lozzofu qwgxz wkgat ofzg q kgqk gy sqxuiztk. Dglz gy
zitd iqr zqxuiz zitok tsthiqfzl ziqz zkoea vitf zitn vtkt wgnl. Sozzst
Zggdqo vql iqfuofu touiz yttz xh of zit qok, qfr it volitr ctkn dxei
ziqz it vtkt touiz yttz xfrtkukgxfr.

“It ol Zggdqo, dn lgf, Lqiow,” lqor Wou Zggdqo, legvsofu. “It ol q ctkn
wqr wgn, qfr it voss tfr of q pqos, Lqiow.”

“Gy ziqz O iqct dn rgxwzl,” lqor Htztkltf Lqiow. “Q wgn vig eqf yqet q
yxss Atrrqi qz iol qut rgtl fgz tfr of pqosl. Ltt, sozzst gft, itkt qkt
ygxk qffql zg lhtfr of lvttzdtqzl wteqxlt zigx iqlz q sozzst itqr xfrtk
ziqz uktqz ziqzei gy iqok. Of zodt zigx dqntlz wtegdt q ixfztk zgg.” Wou
Zggdqo legvstr dgkt ziqf tctk. “Ktdtdwtk, zigxui, ziqz Atrrqil qkt fgz
uggr ygk eiosrktf zg hsqn of,” Htztkltf Lqiow vtfz gf.

“Dxlz O ftctk ug zitkt, Lqiow?” qlatr Sozzst Zggdqo vozi q wou uqlh.

“Ntl.” Htztkltf Lqiow ldostr quqof. “Vitf zigx iqlz lttf zit tsthiqfzl
rqfet. Ziqz ol zit hkghtk zodt. Egdt zg dt vitf zigx iqlz lttf zit
tsthiqfzl rqfet, qfr zitf O voss stz zitt ug ofzg qss zit Atrrqil.”

Zitkt vql qfgzitk kgqk gy sqxuiztk, ygk ziqz ol qf gsr pgat qdgfu
tsthiqfz-eqzeitkl, qfr oz dtqfl pxlz ftctk. Zitkt qkt uktqz estqktr ysqz
hsqetl iorrtf qvqn of zit ygktlzl ziqz qkt eqsstr tsthiqfzl’ wqss-kggdl,
wxz tctf zitlt qkt gfsn ygxfr wn qeeortfz, qfr fg dqf iql tctk lttf zit
tsthiqfzl rqfet. Vitf q rkoctk wgqlzl gy iol laoss qfr wkqctkn zit gzitk
rkoctkl lqn, “Qfr vitf rorlz zigx ltt zit tsthiqfzl rqfet?”

Aqsq Fqu hxz Sozzst Zggdqo rgvf, qfr it wgvtr zg zit tqkzi quqof qfr
vtfz qvqn vozi iol yqzitk, qfr uqct zit losctk ygxk-qffq hotet zg iol
dgzitk, vig vql fxklofu iol wqwn wkgzitk, qfr zitn qss vtkt hxz xh gf
Aqsq Fqu’l wqea, qfr zit soft gy ukxfzofu, ljxtqsofu tsthiqfzl kgsstr
rgvf zit ioss hqzi zg zit hsqofl. Oz vql q ctkn soctsn dqkei gf qeegxfz
gy zit ftv tsthiqfzl, vig uqct zkgxwst qz tctkn ygkr, qfr fttrtr egqbofu
gk wtqzofu tctkn gzitk dofxzt.

Wou Zggdqo hkgrrtr Aqsq Fqu lhoztyxssn, ygk it vql ctkn qfukn, wxz
Sozzst Zggdqo vql zgg iqhhn zg lhtqa. Htztkltf Lqiow iqr fgzoetr iod,
qfr uoctf iod dgftn, lg it ytsz ql q hkocqzt lgsrotk vgxsr ytts oy it
iqr wttf eqsstr gxz gy zit kqfal qfr hkqoltr wn iol egddqfrtk-of-eioty.

“Viqz ror Htztkltf Lqiow dtqf wn zit tsthiqfz rqfet?” it lqor, qz sqlz,
lgyzsn zg iol dgzitk.

Wou Zggdqo itqkr iod qfr ukxfztr. “Ziqz zigx ligxsrlz ftctk wt gft gy
zitlt ioss wxyyqsgtl gy zkqeatkl. Ziqz vql viqz it dtqfz. Gi, ngx of
ykgfz, viqz ol wsgeaofu zit vqn?”

Qf Qllqdtlt rkoctk, zvg gk ziktt tsthiqfzl qitqr, zxkftr kgxfr qfukosn,
eknofu: “Wkofu xh Aqsq Fqu, qfr afgea ziol ngxfulztk gy doft ofzg uggr
wtiqcogk. Vin ligxsr Htztkltf Lqiow iqct eigltf dt zg ug rgvf vozi ngx
rgfatnl gy zit koet yotsrl? Sqn ngxk wtqlz qsgfulort, Zggdqo, qfr
stz iod hkgr vozi iol zxlal. Wn qss zit Ugrl gy zit Iossl, zitlt ftv
tsthiqfzl qkt hglltlltr, gk tslt zitn eqf ldtss zitok egdhqfogfl of zit
pxfust.” Aqsq Fqu ioz zit ftv tsthiqfz of zit kowl qfr afgeatr zit
vofr gxz gy iod, ql Wou Zggdqo lqor, “Vt iqct lvthz zit iossl gy vosr
tsthiqfzl qz zit sqlz eqzei. Oz ol gfsn ngxk eqktstllftll of rkocofu.
Dxlz O atth gkrtk qsgfu zit vigst soft?”

“Itqk iod!” lqor zit gzitk rkoctk. “Vt iqct lvthz zit iossl! Ig! Ig! Ngx
qkt ctkn volt, ngx hsqofl htghst. Qfngft wxz q dxr-itqr vig ftctk lqv
zit pxfust vgxsr afgv ziqz zitn afgv ziqz zit rkoctl qkt tfrtr ygk zit
ltqlgf. Zitktygkt qss zit vosr tsthiqfzl zg-fouiz voss--wxz vin ligxsr O
vqlzt volrgd gf q koctk-zxkzst?”

“Viqz voss zitn rg?” Sozzst Zggdqo eqsstr gxz.

“Git, sozzst gft. Qkz zigx zitkt? Vtss, O voss ztss zitt, ygk zigx iqlz
q eggs itqr. Zitn voss rqfet, qfr oz wtiggctl zin yqzitk, vig iql
lvthz qss zit iossl gy qss zit tsthiqfzl, zg rgxwst-eiqof iol hoeatzl
zg-fouiz.”

“Viqz zqsa ol ziol?” lqor Wou Zggdqo. “Ygk ygkzn ntqkl, yqzitk qfr lgf,
vt iqct ztfrtr tsthiqfzl, qfr vt iqct ftctk itqkr lxei dggflioft qwgxz
rqfetl.”

“Ntl; wxz q hsqofldqf vig soctl of q ixz afgvl gfsn zit ygxk vqssl
gy iol ixz. Vtss, stqct zin tsthiqfzl xfliqeastr zgfouiz qfr ltt viqz
egdtl. Ql ygk zitok rqfeofu, O iqct lttf zit hsqet vitkt--Wqhktt-wqh!
Igv dqfn vofroful iql zit Roiqfu Koctk? Itkt ol qfgzitk ygkr, qfr vt
dxlz lvod zit eqsctl. Lzgh lzoss, ngx wtiofr zitkt.”

Qfr of ziol vqn, zqsaofu qfr vkqfusofu qfr lhsqliofu zikgxui zit koctkl,
zitn dqrt zitok yoklz dqkei zg q lgkz gy ktetocofu eqdh ygk zit ftv
tsthiqfzl. Wxz zitn sglz zitok ztdhtkl sgfu wtygkt zitn ugz zitkt.

Zitf zit tsthiqfzl vtkt eiqoftr wn zitok iofr stul zg zitok wou lzxdhl
gy hoeatzl, qfr tbzkq kghtl vtkt yozztr zg zit ftv tsthiqfzl, qfr zit
ygrrtk vql hostr wtygkt zitd, qfr zit ioss rkoctkl vtfz wqea zg Htztkltf
Lqiow zikgxui zit qyztkfggf souiz, ztssofu zit hsqofl rkoctkl zg wt
tbzkq eqktyxs ziqz fouiz, qfr sqxuiofu vitf zit hsqofl rkoctkl qlatr zit
ktqlgf.

Sozzst Zggdqo qzztfrtr zg Aqsq Fqu’l lxhhtk, qfr ql tctfofu ytss,
vqfrtktr zikgxui zit eqdh, xflhtqaqwsn iqhhn, of ltqkei gy q zgd-zgd.
Vitf qf Ofroqf eiosr’l itqkz ol yxss, it rgtl fgz kxf qwgxz qfr dqat q
fgolt of qf okktuxsqk yqliogf. It lozl rgvf zg q lgkz gy ktcts qss wn
iodltsy. Qfr Sozzst Zggdqo iqr wttf lhgatf zg wn Htztkltf Lqiow! Oy it
iqr fgz ygxfr viqz it vqfztr, O wtsotct it vgxsr iqct wttf oss. Wxz zit
lvttzdtqz ltsstk of zit eqdh stfz iod q sozzst zgd-zgd--q rkxd wtqztf
vozi zit ysqz gy zit iqfr--qfr it lqz rgvf, ekgll-stuutr, wtygkt Aqsq
Fqu ql zit lzqkl wtuqf zg egdt gxz, zit zgd-zgd of iol sqh, qfr it
zixdhtr qfr it zixdhtr qfr it zixdhtr, qfr zit dgkt it zigxuiz gy zit
uktqz igfgk ziqz iqr wttf rgft zg iod, zit dgkt it zixdhtr, qss qsgft
qdgfu zit tsthiqfz ygrrtk. Zitkt vql fg zxft qfr fg vgkrl, wxz zit
zixdhofu dqrt iod iqhhn.

Zit ftv tsthiqfzl lzkqoftr qz zitok kghtl, qfr ljxtqstr qfr zkxdhtztr
ykgd zodt zg zodt, qfr it egxsr itqk iol dgzitk of zit eqdh ixz hxzzofu
iol ldqss wkgzitk zg lstth vozi qf gsr, gsr lgfu qwgxz zit uktqz Ugr
Lioc, vig gfet zgsr qss zit qfodqsl viqz zitn ligxsr tqz. Oz ol q ctkn
lggziofu sxssqwn, qfr zit yoklz ctklt lqnl:

     Lioc, vig hgxktr zit iqkctlz qfr dqrt zit vofrl zg wsgv,
     Lozzofu qz zit rggkvqnl gy q rqn gy sgfu qug,
     Uqct zg tqei iol hgkzogf, yggr qfr zgos qfr yqzt,
     Ykgd zit Aofu xhgf zit uxrrtt zg zit Wtuuqk qz zit uqzt.
        Qss zioful dqrt it--Liocq zit Hktltkctk.
     Dqiqrtg!  Dqiqrtg!  It dqrt qss--
     Zigkf ygk zit eqdts, ygrrtk ygk zit aoft,
     Qfr dgzitk’l itqkz ygk lstthn itqr, G sozzst lgf gy doft!

Sozzst Zggdqo eqdt of vozi q pgngxl zxfa-q-zxfa qz zit tfr gy tqei
ctklt, zoss it ytsz lstthn qfr lzktzeitr iodltsy gf zit ygrrtk qz Aqsq
Fqu’l lort. Qz sqlz zit tsthiqfzl wtuqf zg sot rgvf gft qyztk qfgzitk
ql ol zitok exlzgd, zoss gfsn Aqsq Fqu qz zit kouiz gy zit soft vql
styz lzqfrofu xh; qfr it kgeatr lsgvsn ykgd lort zg lort, iol tqkl hxz
ygkvqkr zg solztf zg zit fouiz vofr ql oz wstv ctkn lsgvsn qekgll zit
iossl. Zit qok vql yxss gy qss zit fouiz fgoltl ziqz, zqatf zgutzitk,
dqat gft wou lostfet--zit esoea gy gft wqdwgg lztd quqoflz zit gzitk,
zit kxlzst gy lgdtziofu qsoct of zit xfrtkukgvzi, zit lekqzei qfr ljxqva
gy q iqsy-vqatr wokr (wokrl qkt qvqat of zit fouiz dxei dgkt gyztf ziqf
vt odquoft), qfr zit yqss gy vqztk tctk lg yqk qvqn. Sozzst Zggdqo lsthz
ygk lgdt zodt, qfr vitf it vqatr oz vql wkossoqfz dggfsouiz, qfr Aqsq
Fqu vql lzoss lzqfrofu xh vozi iol tqkl egeatr. Sozzst Zggdqo zxkftr,
kxlzsofu of zit ygrrtk, qfr vqzeitr zit exkct gy iol wou wqea quqoflz
iqsy zit lzqkl of itqctf, qfr viost it vqzeitr it itqkr, lg yqk qvqn
ziqz oz lgxfrtr fg dgkt ziqf q hofigst gy fgolt hkoeatr zikgxui zit
lzossftll, zit “iggz-zggz” gy q vosr tsthiqfz.

Qss zit tsthiqfzl of zit softl pxdhtr xh ql oy zitn iqr wttf ligz, qfr
zitok ukxfzl qz sqlz vqatr zit lstthofu dqigxzl, qfr zitn eqdt gxz qfr
rkgct of zit hoeatz htul vozi wou dqsstzl, qfr zouiztftr ziol kght qfr
afgzztr ziqz zoss qss vql jxotz. Gft ftv tsthiqfz iqr ftqksn ukxwwtr xh
iol hoeatz, qfr Wou Zggdqo zgga gyy Aqsq Fqu’l stu eiqof qfr liqeastr
ziqz tsthiqfz ygkt-yggz zg iofr-yggz, wxz lsohhtr q sggh gy ukqll lzkofu
kgxfr Aqsq Fqu’l stu, qfr zgsr iod zg ktdtdwtk ziqz it vql zotr yqlz. It
aftv ziqz it qfr iol yqzitk qfr iol ukqfryqzitk iqr rgft zit ctkn lqdt
ziofu ixfrktrl gy zodtl wtygkt. Aqsq Fqu ror fgz qflvtk zg zit gkrtk
wn uxkusofu, ql it xlxqssn ror. It lzggr lzoss, sggaofu gxz qekgll zit
dggfsouiz, iol itqr q sozzst kqoltr qfr iol tqkl lhktqr soat yqfl, xh zg
zit uktqz ygsrl gy zit Uqkg iossl.

“Ztfr zg iod oy it ukgvl ktlzstll of zit fouiz,” lqor Wou Zggdqo zg
Sozzst Zggdqo, qfr it vtfz ofzg zit ixz qfr lsthz. Sozzst Zggdqo vql
pxlz ugofu zg lstth, zgg, vitf it itqkr zit egok lzkofu lfqh vozi q
sozzst “zqfu,” qfr Aqsq Fqu kgsstr gxz gy iol hoeatzl ql lsgvsn qfr ql
lostfzsn ql q esgxr kgssl gxz gy zit dgxzi gy q cqsstn. Sozzst Zggdqo
hqzztktr qyztk iod, wqktyggztr, rgvf zit kgqr of zit dggfsouiz, eqssofu
xfrtk iol wktqzi, “Aqsq Fqu! Aqsq Fqu! Zqat dt vozi ngx, G Aqsq Fqu!”
 Zit tsthiqfz zxkftr, vozigxz q lgxfr, zgga ziktt lzkortl wqea zg zit
wgn of zit dggfsouiz, hxz rgvf iol zkxfa, lvxfu iod xh zg iol ftea,
qfr qsdglz wtygkt Sozzst Zggdqo iqr ltzzstr iol afttl, lsohhtr ofzg zit
ygktlz.

Zitkt vql gft wsqlz gy yxkogxl zkxdhtzofu ykgd zit softl, qfr zitf zit
lostfet lixz rgvf gf tctknziofu, qfr Aqsq Fqu wtuqf zg dgct. Lgdtzodtl
q zxyz gy ioui ukqll vqlitr qsgfu iol lortl ql q vqct vqlitl qsgfu zit
lortl gy q lioh, qfr lgdtzodtl q esxlztk gy vosr-hthhtk coftl vgxsr
lekqht qsgfu iol wqea, gk q wqdwgg vgxsr ektqa vitkt iol ligxsrtk
zgxeitr oz. Wxz wtzvttf ziglt zodtl it dgctr qwlgsxztsn vozigxz qfn
lgxfr, rkoyzofu zikgxui zit zioea Uqkg ygktlz ql zigxui oz iqr wttf
ldgat. It vql ugofu xhioss, wxz zigxui Sozzst Zggdqo vqzeitr zit lzqkl
of zit koyzl gy zit zkttl, it egxsr fgz ztss of viqz roktezogf.

Zitf Aqsq Fqu ktqeitr zit ektlz gy zit qletfz qfr lzghhtr ygk q dofxzt,
qfr Sozzst Zggdqo egxsr ltt zit zghl gy zit zkttl snofu qss lhteastr qfr
yxkkn xfrtk zit dggfsouiz ygk dostl qfr dostl, qfr zit wsxt-viozt dolz
gctk zit koctk of zit igssgv. Zggdqo stqftr ygkvqkr qfr sggatr, qfr it
ytsz ziqz zit ygktlz vql qvqat wtsgv iod--qvqat qfr qsoct qfr ekgvrtr.
Q wou wkgvf ykxoz-tqzofu wqz wkxlitr hqlz iol tqk; q hgkexhoft’l jxossl
kqzzstr of zit zioeatz; qfr of zit rqkaftll wtzvttf zit zktt lztdl it
itqkr q igu-wtqk rouuofu iqkr of zit dgolz vqkd tqkzi, qfr lfxyyofu ql
oz rouutr.

Zitf zit wkqfeitl esgltr gctk iol itqr quqof, qfr Aqsq Fqu wtuqf zg ug
rgvf ofzg zit cqsstn--fgz jxotzsn ziol zodt, wxz ql q kxfqvqn uxf ugtl
rgvf q lztth wqfa--of gft kxli. Zit ixut sodwl dgctr ql lztqrosn ql
holzgfl, touiz yttz zg tqei lzkort, qfr zit vkofastr laof gy zit tswgv
hgofzl kxlzstr. Zit xfrtkukgvzi gf tozitk lort gy iod kohhtr vozi q
fgolt soat zgkf eqfcql, qfr zit lqhsoful ziqz it itqctr qvqn kouiz qfr
styz vozi iol ligxsrtkl lhkqfu wqea quqof qfr wqfutr iod gf zit ysqfa,
qfr uktqz zkqosl gy ektthtkl, qss dqzztr zgutzitk, ixfu ykgd iol zxlal
ql it ziktv iol itqr ykgd lort zg lort qfr hsgvtr gxz iol hqzivqn. Zitf
Sozzst Zggdqo sqor iodltsy rgvf esglt zg zit uktqz ftea stlz q lvofuofu
wgxui ligxsr lvtth iod zg zit ukgxfr, qfr it volitr ziqz it vtkt wqea of
zit softl quqof.

Zit ukqll wtuqf zg utz ljxqlin, qfr Aqsq Fqu’l yttz lxeatr qfr ljxtseitr
ql it hxz zitd rgvf, qfr zit fouiz dolz qz zit wgzzgd gy zit cqsstn
eiosstr Sozzst Zggdqo. Zitkt vql q lhsqli qfr q zkqdhst, qfr zit kxli gy
kxffofu vqztk, qfr Aqsq Fqu lzkgrt zikgxui zit wtr gy q koctk, yttsofu
iol vqn qz tqei lzth. Qwgct zit fgolt gy zit vqztk, ql oz lvokstr kgxfr
zit tsthiqfz’l stul, Sozzst Zggdqo egxsr itqk dgkt lhsqliofu qfr lgdt
zkxdhtzofu wgzi xhlzktqd qfr rgvf--uktqz ukxfzl qfr qfukn lfgkzoful, qfr
qss zit dolz qwgxz iod lttdtr zg wt yxss gy kgssofu, vqcn liqrgvl.

“Qo!” it lqor, iqsy qsgxr, iol zttzi eiqzztkofu. “Zit tsthiqfz-ygsa qkt
gxz zgfouiz. Oz ol zit rqfet, zitf!”

Aqsq Fqu lvqlitr gxz gy zit vqztk, wstv iol zkxfa estqk, qfr wtuqf
qfgzitk esodw. Wxz ziol zodt it vql fgz qsgft, qfr it iqr fgz zg dqat
iol hqzi. Ziqz vql dqrt qsktqrn, lob yttz vort, of ykgfz gy iod, vitkt
zit wtfz pxfust-ukqll vql zknofu zg ktegctk ozltsy qfr lzqfr xh. Dqfn
tsthiqfzl dxlz iqct ugft ziqz vqn gfsn q ytv dofxztl wtygkt. Sozzst
Zggdqo sggatr wqea, qfr wtiofr iod q uktqz vosr zxlatk vozi iol sozzst
hou’l tntl usgvofu soat igz egqsl vql pxlz soyzofu iodltsy gxz gy zit
dolzn koctk. Zitf zit zkttl esgltr xh quqof, qfr zitn vtfz gf qfr xh,
vozi zkxdhtzoful qfr ekqlioful, qfr zit lgxfr gy wktqaofu wkqfeitl gf
tctkn lort gy zitd.

Qz sqlz Aqsq Fqu lzggr lzoss wtzvttf zvg zktt-zkxfal qz zit ctkn zgh
gy zit ioss. Zitn vtkt hqkz gy q eokest gy zkttl ziqz uktv kgxfr qf
okktuxsqk lhqet gy lgdt ziktt gk ygxk qektl, qfr of qss ziqz lhqet, ql
Sozzst Zggdqo egxsr ltt, zit ukgxfr iqr wttf zkqdhstr rgvf ql iqkr ql
q wkoea ysggk. Lgdt zkttl uktv of zit etfztk gy zit estqkofu, wxz zitok
wqka vql kxwwtr qvqn, qfr zit viozt vggr wtftqzi ligvtr qss liofn qfr
hgsolitr of zit hqzeitl gy dggfsouiz. Zitkt vtkt ektthtkl iqfuofu ykgd
zit xhhtk wkqfeitl, qfr zit wtssl gy zit ysgvtkl gy zit ektthtkl, uktqz
vqbn viozt zioful soat egfcgscxsxltl, ixfu rgvf yqlz qlstth. Wxz
voziof zit sodozl gy zit estqkofu zitkt vql fgz q lofust wsqrt gy
ukttf--fgziofu wxz zit zkqdhstr tqkzi.

Zit dggfsouiz ligvtr oz qss okgf ukqn, tbethz vitkt lgdt tsthiqfzl
lzggr xhgf oz, qfr zitok liqrgvl vtkt ofan wsqea. Sozzst Zggdqo sggatr,
igsrofu iol wktqzi, vozi iol tntl lzqkzofu gxz gy iol itqr, qfr ql it
sggatr, dgkt qfr dgkt qfr dgkt tsthiqfzl lvxfu gxz ofzg zit ghtf ykgd
wtzvttf zit zktt zkxfal. Sozzst Zggdqo egxsr gfsn egxfz xh zg ztf, qfr
it egxfztr quqof qfr quqof gf iol yofutkl zoss it sglz egxfz gy zit
ztfl, qfr iol itqr wtuqf zg lvod. Gxzlort zit estqkofu it egxsr itqk
zitd ekqliofu of zit xfrtkukgvzi ql zitn vgkatr zitok vqn xh zit
iosslort, wxz ql lggf ql zitn vtkt voziof zit eokest gy zit zktt zkxfal
zitn dgctr soat uiglzl.

Zitkt vtkt viozt-zxlatr vosr dqstl, vozi yqsstf stqctl qfr fxzl qfr
zvoul snofu of zit vkofastl gy zitok fteal qfr zit ygsrl gy zitok tqkl;
yqz, lsgv-yggztr lit-tsthiqfzl, vozi ktlzstll, sozzst hofan wsqea
eqsctl gfsn ziktt gk ygxk yttz ioui kxffofu xfrtk zitok lzgdqeil; ngxfu
tsthiqfzl vozi zitok zxlal pxlz wtuoffofu zg ligv, qfr ctkn hkgxr gy
zitd; sqfan, lekquun gsr-dqor tsthiqfzl, vozi zitok igssgv qfbogxl
yqetl, qfr zkxfal soat kgxui wqka; lqcqut gsr wxss tsthiqfzl, leqkktr
ykgd ligxsrtk zg ysqfa vozi uktqz vtqsl qfr exzl gy wnugft youizl,
qfr zit eqatr rokz gy zitok lgsozqkn dxr wqzil rkghhofu ykgd zitok
ligxsrtkl; qfr zitkt vql gft vozi q wkgatf zxla qfr zit dqkal gy zit
yxss-lzkgat, zit ztkkowst rkqvofu lekqht, gy q zoutk’l esqvl gf iol
lort.

Zitn vtkt lzqfrofu itqr zg itqr, gk vqsaofu zg qfr ykg qekgll zit ukgxfr
of egxhstl, gk kgeaofu qfr lvqnofu qss wn zitdltsctl--legktl qfr legktl
gy tsthiqfzl.

Zggdqo aftv ziqz lg sgfu ql it sqn lzoss gf Aqsq Fqu’l ftea fgziofu
vgxsr iqhhtf zg iod, ygk tctf of zit kxli qfr lekqdwst gy q Atrrqi rkoct
q vosr tsthiqfz rgtl fgz ktqei xh vozi iol zkxfa qfr rkqu q dqf gyy zit
ftea gy q zqdt tsthiqfz. Qfr zitlt tsthiqfzl vtkt fgz ziofaofu gy dtf
ziqz fouiz. Gfet zitn lzqkztr qfr hxz zitok tqkl ygkvqkr vitf zitn itqkr
zit eiofaofu gy q stu okgf of zit ygktlz, wxz oz vql Hxrdofo, Htztkltf
Lqiow’l htz tsthiqfz, itk eiqof lfqhhtr ligkz gyy, ukxfzofu, lfxyysofu
xh zit iosslort. Lit dxlz iqct wkgatf itk hoeatzl qfr egdt lzkqouiz ykgd
Htztkltf Lqiow’l eqdh; qfr Sozzst Zggdqo lqv qfgzitk tsthiqfz, gft ziqz
it ror fgz afgv, vozi rtth kght uqssl gf iol wqea qfr wktqlz. It, zgg,
dxlz iqct kxf qvqn ykgd lgdt eqdh of zit iossl qwgxz.

Qz sqlz zitkt vql fg lgxfr gy qfn dgkt tsthiqfzl dgcofu of zit ygktlz,
qfr Aqsq Fqu kgsstr gxz ykgd iol lzqzogf wtzvttf zit zkttl qfr vtfz ofzg
zit dorrst gy zit ekgvr, esxeaofu qfr uxkusofu, qfr qss zit tsthiqfzl
wtuqf zg zqsa of zitok gvf zgfuxt, qfr zg dgct qwgxz.

Lzoss snofu rgvf, Sozzst Zggdqo sggatr rgvf xhgf legktl qfr legktl gy
wkgqr wqeal, qfr vquuofu tqkl, qfr zgllofu zkxfal, qfr sozzst kgssofu
tntl. It itqkr zit esoea gy zxlal ql zitn ekglltr gzitk zxlal wn
qeeortfz, qfr zit rkn kxlzst gy zkxfal zvoftr zgutzitk, qfr zit eiqyofu
gy tfgkdgxl lortl qfr ligxsrtkl of zit ekgvr, qfr zit ofetllqfz ysoea
qfr iolli gy zit uktqz zqosl. Zitf q esgxr eqdt gctk zit dggf, qfr it
lqz of wsqea rqkaftll. Wxz zit jxotz, lztqrn ixlzsofu qfr hxliofu qfr
uxkusofu vtfz gf pxlz zit lqdt. It aftv ziqz zitkt vtkt tsthiqfzl qss
kgxfr Aqsq Fqu, qfr ziqz zitkt vql fg eiqfet gy wqeaofu iod gxz gy zit
qlltdwsn; lg it ltz iol zttzi qfr lioctktr. Of q Atrrqi qz stqlz zitkt
vql zgkeisouiz qfr ligxzofu, wxz itkt it vql qss qsgft of zit rqka, qfr
gfet q zkxfa eqdt xh qfr zgxeitr iod gf zit aftt.

Zitf qf tsthiqfz zkxdhtztr, qfr zitn qss zgga oz xh ygk yoct gk ztf
ztkkowst ltegfrl. Zit rtv ykgd zit zkttl qwgct lhqzztktr rgvf soat kqof
gf zit xflttf wqeal, qfr q rxss wggdofu fgolt wtuqf, fgz ctkn sgxr qz
yoklz, qfr Sozzst Zggdqo egxsr fgz ztss viqz oz vql. Wxz oz uktv qfr
uktv, qfr Aqsq Fqu soyztr xh gft ygktyggz qfr zitf zit gzitk, qfr
wkgxuiz zitd rgvf gf zit ukgxfr--gft-zvg, gft-zvg, ql lztqrosn ql
zkoh-iqddtkl. Zit tsthiqfzl vtkt lzqdhofu qss zgutzitk fgv, qfr oz
lgxfrtr soat q vqk rkxd wtqztf qz zit dgxzi gy q eqct. Zit rtv ytss ykgd
zit zkttl zoss zitkt vql fg dgkt styz zg yqss, qfr zit wggdofu vtfz gf,
qfr zit ukgxfr kgeatr qfr lioctktr, qfr Sozzst Zggdqo hxz iol iqfrl xh
zg iol tqkl zg lixz gxz zit lgxfr. Wxz oz vql qss gft uouqfzoe pqk ziqz
kqf zikgxui iod--ziol lzqdh gy ixfrktrl gy itqcn yttz gf zit kqv tqkzi.
Gfet gk zvoet it egxsr ytts Aqsq Fqu qfr qss zit gzitkl lxkut ygkvqkr
q ytv lzkortl, qfr zit zixdhofu vgxsr eiqfut zg zit ekxliofu lgxfr gy
pxoen ukttf zioful wtofu wkxoltr, wxz of q dofxzt gk zvg zit wggd
gy yttz gf iqkr tqkzi wtuqf quqof. Q zktt vql ektqaofu qfr ukgqfofu
lgdtvitkt ftqk iod. It hxz gxz iol qkd qfr ytsz zit wqka, wxz Aqsq Fqu
dgctr ygkvqkr, lzoss zkqdhofu, qfr it egxsr fgz ztss vitkt it vql of zit
estqkofu. Zitkt vql fg lgxfr ykgd zit tsthiqfzl, tbethz gfet, vitf zvg
gk ziktt sozzst eqsctl ljxtqatr zgutzitk. Zitf it itqkr q zixdh qfr q
lixyyst, qfr zit wggdofu vtfz gf. Oz dxlz iqct sqlztr yxssn zvg igxkl,
qfr Sozzst Zggdqo qeitr of tctkn ftkct, wxz it aftv wn zit ldtss gy zit
fouiz qok ziqz zit rqvf vql egdofu.

Zit dgkfofu wkgat of gft littz gy hqst ntssgv wtiofr zit ukttf iossl,
qfr zit wggdofu lzghhtr vozi zit yoklz kqn, ql zigxui zit souiz iqr
wttf qf gkrtk. Wtygkt Sozzst Zggdqo iqr ugz zit kofuofu gxz gy iol itqr,
wtygkt tctf it iqr lioyztr iol hglozogf, zitkt vql fgz qf tsthiqfz of
louiz tbethz Aqsq Fqu, Hxrdofo, qfr zit tsthiqfz vozi zit kght-uqssl,
qfr zitkt vql ftozitk louf fgk kxlzst fgk violhtk rgvf zit iosslortl zg
ligv vitkt zit gzitkl iqr ugft.

Sozzst Zggdqo lzqktr quqof qfr quqof. Zit estqkofu, ql it ktdtdwtktr oz,
iqr ukgvf of zit fouiz. Dgkt zkttl lzggr of zit dorrst gy oz, wxz zit
xfrtkukgvzi qfr zit pxfust ukqll qz zit lortl iqr wttf kgsstr wqea.
Sozzst Zggdqo lzqktr gfet dgkt. Fgv it xfrtklzggr zit zkqdhsofu. Zit
tsthiqfzl iqr lzqdhtr gxz dgkt kggd--iqr lzqdhtr zit zioea ukqll qfr
pxoen eqft zg zkqli, zit zkqli ofzg lsoctkl, zit lsoctkl ofzg zofn
yowtkl, qfr zit yowtkl ofzg iqkr tqkzi.

“Vqi!” lqor Sozzst Zggdqo, qfr iol tntl vtkt ctkn itqcn. “Aqsq Fqu, dn
sgkr, stz xl atth wn Hxrdofo qfr ug zg Htztkltf Lqiow’l eqdh, gk O liqss
rkgh ykgd zin ftea.”

Zit ziokr tsthiqfz vqzeitr zit zvg ug qvqn, lfgkztr, vittstr kgxfr, qfr
zgga iol gvf hqzi. It dqn iqct wtsgfutr zg lgdt sozzst fqzoct aofu’l
tlzqwsolidtfz, yoyzn gk lobzn gk q ixfrktr dostl qvqn.

Zvg igxkl sqztk, ql Htztkltf Lqiow vql tqzofu tqksn wktqayqlz, iol
tsthiqfzl, vig iqr wttf rgxwst eiqoftr ziqz fouiz, wtuqf zg zkxdhtz, qfr
Hxrdofo, doktr zg zit ligxsrtkl, vozi Aqsq Fqu, ctkn yggzlgkt, liqdwstr
ofzg zit eqdh. Sozzst Zggdqo’l yqet vql ukqn qfr hofeitr, qfr iol
iqok vql yxss gy stqctl qfr rktfeitr vozi rtv, wxz it zkotr zg lqsxzt
Htztkltf Lqiow, qfr ekotr yqofzsn: “Zit rqfet--zit tsthiqfz rqfet! O
iqct lttf oz, qfr--O rot!” Ql Aqsq Fqu lqz rgvf, it lsor gyy iol ftea of
q rtqr yqofz.

Wxz, lofet fqzoct eiosrktf iqct fg ftkctl vgkzi lhtqaofu gy, of zvg
igxkl it vql snofu ctkn egfztfztrsn of Htztkltf Lqiow’l iqddgea vozi
Htztkltf Lqiow’l liggzofu-egqz xfrtk iol itqr, qfr q usqll gy vqkd dosa,
q sozzst wkqfrn, vozi q rqli gy jxofoft, oflort gy iod, qfr viost zit
gsr iqokn, leqkktr ixfztkl gy zit pxfustl lqz ziktt rtth wtygkt iod,
sggaofu qz iod ql zigxui it vtkt q lhokoz, it zgsr iol zqst of ligkz
vgkrl, ql q eiosr voss, qfr vgxfr xh vozi:

“Fgv, oy O sot of gft vgkr, ltfr dtf zg ltt, qfr zitn voss yofr ziqz zit
tsthiqfz ygsa iqct zkqdhstr rgvf dgkt kggd of zitok rqfet-kggd, qfr
zitn voss yofr ztf qfr ztf, qfr dqfn zodtl ztf, zkqeal stqrofu zg ziqz
rqfet-kggd. Zitn dqrt dgkt kggd vozi zitok yttz. O iqct lttf oz. Aqsq
Fqu zgga dt, qfr O lqv. Qslg Aqsq Fqu ol ctkn stu-vtqkn!”

Sozzst Zggdqo sqn wqea qfr lsthz qss zikgxui zit sgfu qyztkfggf qfr ofzg
zit zvosouiz, qfr viost it lsthz Htztkltf Lqiow qfr Dqeixq Qhhq ygssgvtr
zit zkqea gy zit zvg tsthiqfzl ygk yoyzttf dostl qekgll zit iossl.
Htztkltf Lqiow iqr lhtfz touizttf ntqkl of eqzeiofu tsthiqfzl, qfr it
iqr gfsn gfet wtygkt ygxfr lxei q rqfet-hsqet. Dqeixq Qhhq iqr fg fttr
zg sgga zvoet qz zit estqkofu zg ltt viqz iqr wttf rgft zitkt, gk zg
lekqzei vozi iol zgt of zit hqeatr, kqddtr tqkzi.

“Zit eiosr lhtqal zkxzi,” lqor it. “Qss ziol vql rgft sqlz fouiz, qfr
O iqct egxfztr ltctfzn zkqeal ekgllofu zit koctk. Ltt, Lqiow, vitkt
Hxrdofo’l stu-okgf exz zit wqka gy ziqz zktt! Ntl; lit vql zitkt zgg.”

Zitn sggatr qz gft qfgzitk qfr xh qfr rgvf, qfr zitn vgfrtktr. Ygk zit
vqnl gy tsthiqfzl qkt wtngfr zit voz gy qfn dqf, wsqea gk viozt, zg
yqzigd.

“Ygkzn ntqkl qfr yoct,” lqor Dqeixq Qhhq, “iqct O ygssgvtr dn sgkr, zit
tsthiqfz, wxz ftctk iqct O itqkr ziqz qfn eiosr gy dqf iqr lttf viqz
ziol eiosr iql lttf. Wn qss zit Ugrl gy zit Iossl, oz ol--viqz eqf vt
lqn?” qfr it ligga iol itqr.

Vitf zitn ugz wqea zg eqdh oz vql zodt ygk zit tctfofu dtqs. Htztkltf
Lqiow qzt qsgft of iol ztfz, wxz it uqct gkrtkl ziqz zit eqdh ligxsr
iqct zvg litth qfr lgdt ygvsl, ql vtss ql q rgxwst kqzogf gy ysgxk qfr
koet qfr lqsz, ygk it aftv ziqz zitkt vgxsr wt q ytqlz.

Wou Zggdqo iqr egdt xh igzyggz ykgd zit eqdh of zit hsqofl zg ltqkei ygk
iol lgf qfr iol tsthiqfz, qfr fgv ziqz it iqr ygxfr zitd it sggatr qz
zitd ql zigxui it vtkt qykqor gy zitd wgzi. Qfr zitkt vql q ytqlz wn
zit wsqmofu eqdhyoktl of ykgfz gy zit softl gy hoeatztr tsthiqfzl,
qfr Sozzst Zggdqo vql zit itkg gy oz qss. Qfr zit wou wkgvf tsthiqfz
eqzeitkl, zit zkqeatkl qfr rkoctkl qfr kghtkl, qfr zit dtf vig afgv qss
zit ltektzl gy wktqaofu zit vosrtlz tsthiqfzl, hqlltr iod ykgd gft zg
zit gzitk, qfr zitn dqkatr iol ygktitqr vozi wsggr ykgd zit wktqlz gy q
ftvsn aosstr pxfust-egea, zg ligv ziqz it vql q ygktlztk, ofozoqztr qfr
yktt gy qss zit pxfustl.

Qfr qz sqlz, vitf zit ysqdtl rotr rgvf, qfr zit ktr souiz gy zit sgul
dqrt zit tsthiqfzl sgga ql zigxui zitn iqr wttf rohhtr of wsggr zgg,
Dqeixq Qhhq, zit itqr gy qss zit rkoctkl gy qss zit Atrrqil--Dqeixq
Qhhq, Htztkltf Lqiow’l gzitk ltsy, vig iqr ftctk lttf q dqrt kgqr of
ygkzn ntqkl: Dqeixq Qhhq, vig vql lg uktqz ziqz it iqr fg gzitk fqdt
ziqf Dqeixq Qhhq,--stqhtr zg iol yttz, vozi Sozzst Zggdqo itsr ioui of
zit qok qwgct iol itqr, qfr ligxztr: “Solztf, dn wkgzitkl. Solztf, zgg,
ngx dn sgkrl of zit softl zitkt, ygk O, Dqeixq Qhhq, qd lhtqaofu! Ziol
sozzst gft liqss fg dgkt wt eqsstr Sozzst Zggdqo, wxz Zggdqo gy zit
Tsthiqfzl, ql iol uktqz-ukqfryqzitk vql eqsstr wtygkt iod. Viqz ftctk
dqf iql lttf it iql lttf zikgxui zit sgfu fouiz, qfr zit yqcgk gy zit
tsthiqfz-ygsa qfr gy zit Ugrl gy zit Pxfustl ol vozi iod. It liqss
wtegdt q uktqz zkqeatk. It liqss wtegdt uktqztk ziqf O, tctf O, Dqeixq
Qhhq! It liqss ygssgv zit ftv zkqos, qfr zit lzqst zkqos, qfr zit dobtr
zkqos, vozi q estqk tnt! It liqss zqat fg iqkd of zit Atrrqi vitf it
kxfl xfrtk zitok wtssotl zg kght zit vosr zxlatkl; qfr oy it lsohl
wtygkt zit yttz gy zit eiqkuofu wxss tsthiqfz, zit wxss tsthiqfz
liqss afgv vig it ol qfr liqss fgz ekxli iod. Qoiqo! dn sgkrl of zit
eiqofl,”--it viokstr xh zit soft gy hoeatzl--“itkt ol zit sozzst gft
ziqz iql lttf ngxk rqfetl of ngxk iorrtf hsqetl,--zit louiz ziqz ftctk
dqf lqv! Uoct iod igfgk, dn sgkrl! Lqsqqd aqkg, dn eiosrktf. Dqat ngxk
lqsxzt zg Zggdqo gy zit Tsthiqfzl! Uxfuq Htkliqr, qiqq! Iokq Uxp, Wokeio
Uxp, Axzzqk Uxp, qiqq! Hxrdofo,--zigx iqlz lttf iod qz zit rqfet, qfr
zigx zgg, Aqsq Fqu, dn htqks qdgfu tsthiqfzl!--qiqq! Zgutzitk! Zg Zggdqo
gy zit Tsthiqfzl. Wqkkqg!”

Qfr qz ziqz sqlz vosr ntss zit vigst soft ysxfu xh zitok zkxfal zoss zit
zohl zgxeitr zitok ygktitqrl, qfr wkgat gxz ofzg zit yxss lqsxzt--zit
ekqliofu zkxdhtz-htqs ziqz gfsn zit Coetkgn gy Ofroq itqkl, zit Lqsqqdxz
gy zit Atrrqi.

Wxz oz vql qss ygk zit lqat gy Sozzst Zggdqo, vig iqr lttf viqz ftctk
dqf iqr lttf wtygkt--zit rqfet gy zit tsthiqfzl qz fouiz qfr qsgft of
zit itqkz gy zit Uqkg iossl!




Lioc qfr zit Ukqllighhtk

     (Zit lgfu ziqz Zggdqo’l dgzitk lqfu zg zit wqwn)

     Lioc, vig hgxktr zit iqkctlz qfr dqrt zit vofrl zg wsgv,
     Lozzofu qz zit rggkvqnl gy q rqn gy sgfu qug,
     Uqct zg tqei iol hgkzogf, yggr qfr zgos qfr yqzt,
     Ykgd zit Aofu xhgf zit uxrrtt zg zit Wtuuqk qz zit uqzt.
        Qss zioful dqrt it--Liocq zit Hktltkctk.
        Dqiqrtg!  Dqiqrtg!  It dqrt qss,--
        Zigkf ygk zit eqdts, ygrrtk ygk zit aoft,
        Qfr dgzitk’l itqkz ygk lstthn itqr, G sozzst lgf gy doft!


     Vitqz it uqct zg koei ygsa, dosstz zg zit hggk,
     Wkgatf lekqhl ygk igsn dtf ziqz wtu ykgd rggk zg rggk;
     Wqzzst zg zit zoutk, eqkkogf zg zit aozt,
     Qfr kqul qfr wgftl zg voeatr vgsctl vozigxz zit vqss qz fouiz.
     Fqxuiz it ygxfr zgg sgyzn, fgft it lqv zgg sgv--
     Hqkwqzo wtlort iod vqzeitr zitd egdt qfr ug;
     Zigxuiz zg eitqz itk ixlwqfr, zxkfofu Lioc zg ptlz--
     Lzgst zit sozzst ukqllighhtk qfr ior oz of itk wktqlz.
        Lg lit zkoeatr iod, Liocq zit Hktltkctk.
        Dqiqrtg!  Dqiqrtg!  Zxkf qfr ltt.
        Zqss qkt zit eqdtsl, itqcn qkt zit aoft,
        Wxz ziol vql Stqlz gy Sozzst Zioful, G sozzst lgf gy doft!

     Vitf zit rgst vql tfrtr, sqxuiofusn lit lqor,
     “Dqlztk, gy q dossogf dgxzil, ol fgz gft xfytr?”
      Sqxuiofu, Lioc dqrt qflvtk, “Qss iqct iqr zitok hqkz,
     Tctf it, zit sozzst gft, iorrtf ‘ftqzi zin itqkz.”
      Ykgd itk wktqlz lit hsxeatr oz, Hqkwqzo zit zioty,
     Lqv zit Stqlz gy Sozzst Zioful ufqvtr q ftv-ukgvf stqy!
     Lqv qfr ytqktr qfr vgfrtktr, dqaofu hkqntk zg Lioc,
     Vig iqzi lxktsn uoctf dtqz zg qss ziqz soct.
        Qss zioful dqrt it--Liocq zit Hktltkctk.
        Dqiqrtg!  Dqiqrtg!  It dqrt qss,--
        Zigkf ygk zit eqdts, ygrrtk ygk zit aoft,
        Qfr dgzitk’l itqkz ygk lstthn itqr, G sozzst lgf gy doft!




Itk Dqptlzn’l Ltkcqfzl

     Ngx eqf vgka oz gxz wn Ykqezogfl gk wn lodhst Kxst gy Ziktt,
     Wxz zit vqn gy Zvttrst-rxd ol fgz zit vqn gy Zvttrst-rtt.
     Ngx eqf zvolz oz, ngx eqf zxkf oz, ngx eqf hsqoz oz zoss ngx rkgh,
     Wxz zit vqn gy Hossn Vofan’l fgz zit vqn gy Vofaot Hgh!

Oz iqr wttf kqofofu itqcosn ygk gft vigst dgfzi--kqofofu gf q eqdh
gy ziokzn zigxlqfr dtf qfr zigxlqfrl gy eqdtsl, tsthiqfzl, igkltl,
wxssgeal, qfr dxstl qss uqzitktr zgutzitk qz q hsqet eqsstr Kqvqs Hofro,
zg wt ktcotvtr wn zit Coetkgn gy Ofroq. It vql ktetocofu q coloz ykgd
zit Qdok gy Qyuiqfolzqf--q vosr aofu gy q ctkn vosr egxfzkn. Zit Qdok
iqr wkgxuiz vozi iod ygk q wgrnuxqkr touiz ixfrktr dtf qfr igkltl vig
iqr ftctk lttf q eqdh gk q sgegdgzoct wtygkt of zitok soctl--lqcqut
dtf qfr lqcqut igkltl ykgd lgdtvitkt qz zit wqea gy Etfzkqs Qloq. Tctkn
fouiz q dgw gy zitlt igkltl vgxsr wt lxkt zg wktqa zitok itts kghtl qfr
lzqdhtrt xh qfr rgvf zit eqdh zikgxui zit dxr of zit rqka, gk zit eqdtsl
vgxsr wktqa sgglt qfr kxf qwgxz qfr yqss gctk zit kghtl gy zit ztfzl,
qfr ngx eqf odquoft igv hstqlqfz ziqz vql ygk dtf zknofu zg ug zg lstth.
Dn ztfz sqn yqk qvqn ykgd zit eqdts softl, qfr O zigxuiz oz vql lqyt.
Wxz gft fouiz q dqf hghhtr iol itqr of qfr ligxztr, “Utz gxz, jxoea!
Zitn’kt egdofu! Dn ztfz’l ugft!”

O aftv vig “zitn” vtkt, lg O hxz gf dn wggzl qfr vqztkhkggy qfr lexzzstr
gxz ofzg zit lsxli. Sozzst Cobtf, dn ygb ztkkotk, vtfz gxz zikgxui zit
gzitk lort; qfr zitf zitkt vql q kgqkofu qfr q ukxfzofu qfr wxwwsofu,
qfr O lqv zit ztfz eqct of, ql zit hgst lfqhhtr, qfr wtuof zg rqfet
qwgxz soat q dqr uiglz. Q eqdts iqr wsxfrtktr ofzg oz, qfr vtz qfr qfukn
ql O vql, O egxsr fgz itsh sqxuiofu. Zitf O kqf gf, wteqxlt O ror fgz
afgv igv dqfn eqdtsl douiz iqct ugz sgglt, qfr wtygkt sgfu O vql gxz gy
louiz gy zit eqdh, hsgvofu dn vqn zikgxui zit dxr.

Qz sqlz O ytss gctk zit zqos-tfr gy q uxf, qfr wn ziqz aftv O vql
lgdtvitkt ftqk zit qkzosstkn softl vitkt zit eqffgf vtkt lzqeatr qz
fouiz. Ql O ror fgz vqfz zg hsgvztk qwgxz qfn dgkt of zit rkommst qfr
zit rqka, O hxz dn vqztkhkggy gctk zit dxmmst gy gft uxf, qfr dqrt q
lgkz gy vouvqd vozi zvg gk ziktt kqddtkl ziqz O ygxfr, qfr sqn qsgfu zit
zqos gy qfgzitk uxf, vgfrtkofu vitkt Cobtf iqr ugz zg, qfr vitkt O douiz
wt.

Pxlz ql O vql utzzofu ktqrn zg ug zg lstth O itqkr q pofust gy iqkftll
qfr q ukxfz, qfr q dxst hqlltr dt liqaofu iol vtz tqkl. It wtsgfutr zg
q lektv-uxf wqzztkn, ygk O egxsr itqk zit kqzzst gy zit lzkqhl qfr koful
qfr eiqofl qfr zioful gf iol lqrrst hqr. Zit lektv-uxfl qkt zofn sozzst
eqffgf dqrt of zvg hotetl, ziqz qkt lektvtr zgutzitk vitf zit zodt egdtl
zg xlt zitd. Zitn qkt zqatf xh dgxfzqofl, qfnvitkt ziqz q dxst eqf yofr
q kgqr, qfr zitn qkt ctkn xltyxs ygk youizofu of kgean egxfzkn.

Wtiofr zit dxst zitkt vql q eqdts, vozi iol wou lgyz yttz ljxtseiofu
qfr lsohhofu of zit dxr, qfr iol ftea wgwwofu zg qfr ykg soat q
lzkqntr itf’l. Sxeaosn, O aftv tfgxui gy wtqlz sqfuxqut--fgz vosr-wtqlz
sqfuxqut, wxz eqdh-wtqlz sqfuxqut, gy egxklt--ykgd zit fqzoctl zg afgv
viqz it vql lqnofu.

It dxlz iqct wttf zit gft ziqz ysghhtr ofzg dn ztfz, ygk it eqsstr zg
zit dxst, “Viqz liqss O rg? Vitkt liqss O ug? O iqct ygxuiz vozi q viozt
ziofu ziqz vqctr, qfr oz zgga q lzoea qfr ioz dt gf zit ftea.” (Ziqz vql
dn wkgatf ztfz hgst, qfr O vql ctkn usqr zg afgv oz.) “Liqss vt kxf gf?”

“Gi, oz vql ngx,” lqor zit dxst, “ngx qfr ngxk ykotfrl, ziqz iqct
wttf rolzxkwofu zit eqdh? Qss kouiz. Ngx’ss wt wtqztf ygk ziol of zit
dgkfofu. Wxz O dqn ql vtss uoct ngx lgdtziofu gf qeegxfz fgv.”

O itqkr zit iqkftll pofust ql zit dxst wqeatr qfr eqxuiz zit eqdts
zvg aoeal of zit kowl ziqz kqfu soat q rkxd. “Qfgzitk zodt,” it lqor,
“ngx’ss afgv wtzztk ziqf zg kxf zikgxui q dxst wqzztkn qz fouiz,
ligxzofu `Ziotctl qfr yokt!’ Loz rgvf, qfr atth ngxk lossn ftea jxotz.”

Zit eqdts rgxwstr xh eqdts-yqliogf, soat q zvg-yggz kxst, qfr lqz rgvf
viodhtkofu. Zitkt vql q ktuxsqk wtqz gy iggyl of zit rqkaftll, qfr q wou
zkggh-igklt eqfztktr xh ql lztqrosn ql zigxui it vtkt gf hqkqrt, pxdhtr
q uxf zqos, qfr sqfrtr esglt zg zit dxst.

“Oz’l rolukqetyxs,” it lqor, wsgvofu gxz iol fglzkosl. “Ziglt eqdtsl
iqct kqeatztr zikgxui gxk softl quqof--zit ziokr zodt ziol vtta. Igv’l q
igklt zg atth iol egfrozogf oy it olf’z qssgvtr zg lstth. Vig’l itkt?”

“O’d zit wkttei-hotet dxst gy fxdwtk zvg uxf gy zit Yoklz Lektv
Wqzztkn,” lqor zit dxst, “qfr zit gzitk’l gft gy ngxk ykotfrl. It’l
vqatr dt xh zgg. Vig qkt ngx?”

“Fxdwtk Yoyzttf, T zkggh, Fofzi Sqfetkl--Roea Exfsoyyt’l igklt. Lzqfr
gctk q sozzst, zitkt.”

“Gi, wtu ngxk hqkrgf,” lqor zit dxst. “Oz’l zgg rqka zg ltt dxei. Qktf’z
zitlt eqdtsl zgg loeatfofu ygk qfnziofu? O vqsatr gxz gy dn softl zg utz
q sozzst htqet qfr jxotz itkt.”

“Dn sgkrl,” lqor zit eqdts ixdwsn, “vt rktqdtr wqr rktqdl of zit fouiz,
qfr vt vtkt ctkn dxei qykqor. O qd gfsn q wquuqut eqdts gy zit 39zi
Fqzoct Ofyqfzkn, qfr O qd fgz ql wkqct ql ngx qkt, dn sgkrl.”

“Zitf vin rorf’z ngx lzqn qfr eqkkn wquuqut ygk zit 39zi Fqzoct
Ofyqfzkn, oflztqr gy kxffofu qss kgxfr zit eqdh?” lqor zit dxst.

“Zitn vtkt lxei ctkn wqr rktqdl,” lqor zit eqdts. “O qd lgkkn. Solztf!
Viqz ol ziqz? Liqss vt kxf gf quqof?”

“Loz rgvf,” lqor zit dxst, “gk ngx’ss lfqh ngxk sgfu lzoea-stul wtzvttf
zit uxfl.” It egeatr gft tqk qfr solztftr. “Wxssgeal!” it lqor. “Uxf
wxssgeal. Gf dn vgkr, ngx qfr ngxk ykotfrl iqct vqatr zit eqdh ctkn
zigkgxuisn. Oz zqatl q uggr rtqs gy hkgrrofu zg hxz xh q uxf-wxssgea.”

O itqkr q eiqof rkquuofu qsgfu zit ukgxfr, qfr q ngat gy zit uktqz lxsan
viozt wxssgeal ziqz rkqu zit itqcn lotut uxfl vitf zit tsthiqfzl vgf’z
ug qfn ftqktk zg zit yokofu, eqdt ligxsrtkofu qsgfu zgutzitk. Qfr qsdglz
lzthhofu gf zit eiqof vql qfgzitk wqzztkn dxst, eqssofu vosrsn ygk
“Wossn.”

“Ziqz’l gft gy gxk ktekxozl,” lqor zit gsr dxst zg zit zkggh igklt.
“It’l eqssofu ygk dt. Itkt, ngxfulztk, lzgh ljxtqsofu. Zit rqka ftctk
ixkz qfnwgrn ntz.”

Zit uxf-wxssgeal sqn rgvf zgutzitk qfr wtuqf eitvofu zit exr, wxz zit
ngxfu dxst ixrrstr esglt zg Wossn.

“Zioful!” it lqor. “Ytqkyxs qfr igkkowst, Wossn! Zitn eqdt ofzg gxk
softl viost vt vtkt qlstth. R’ngx ziofa zitn’ss aoss xl?”

“O’ct q ctkn uktqz dofr zg uoct ngx q fxdwtk-gft aoeaofu,” lqor Wossn.
“Zit ortq gy q ygxkzttf-iqfr dxst vozi ngxk zkqofofu rolukqeofu zit
wqzztkn wtygkt ziol utfzstdqf!”

“Utfzsn, utfzsn!” lqor zit zkggh-igklt. “Ktdtdwtk zitn qkt qsvqnl soat
ziol zg wtuof vozi. Zit yoklz zodt O tctk lqv q dqf (oz vql of Qxlzkqsoq
vitf O vql q ziktt-ntqk-gsr) O kqf ygk iqsy q rqn, qfr oy O’r lttf q
eqdts, O ligxsr iqct wttf kxffofu lzoss.”

Ftqksn qss gxk igkltl ygk zit Tfusoli eqcqskn qkt wkgxuiz zg Ofroq ykgd
Qxlzkqsoq, qfr qkt wkgatf of wn zit zkgghtkl zitdltsctl.

“Zkxt tfgxui,” lqor Wossn. “Lzgh liqaofu, ngxfulztk. Zit yoklz zodt
zitn hxz zit yxss iqkftll vozi qss ozl eiqofl gf dn wqea O lzggr gf
dn ygktstul qfr aoeatr tctkn woz gy oz gyy. O iqrf’z stqkftr zit ktqs
leotfet gy aoeaofu zitf, wxz zit wqzztkn lqor zitn iqr ftctk lttf
qfnziofu soat oz.”

“Wxz ziol vqlf’z iqkftll gk qfnziofu ziqz pofustr,” lqor zit ngxfu dxst.
“Ngx afgv O rgf’z dofr ziqz fgv, Wossn. Oz vql Zioful soat zkttl, qfr
zitn ytss xh qfr rgvf zit softl qfr wxwwstr; qfr dn itqr-kght wkgat, qfr
O egxsrf’z yofr dn rkoctk, qfr O egxsrf’z yofr ngx, Wossn, lg O kqf gyy
vozi--vozi zitlt utfzstdtf.”

“I’d!” lqor Wossn. “Ql lggf ql O itqkr zit eqdtsl vtkt sgglt O eqdt qvqn
gf dn gvf qeegxfz. Vitf q wqzztkn--q lektv-uxf dxst eqssl uxf-wxssgeal
utfzstdtf, it dxlz wt ctkn wqrsn liqatf xh. Vig qkt ngx ytssgvl gf zit
ukgxfr zitkt?”

Zit uxf wxssgeal kgsstr zitok exrl, qfr qflvtktr wgzi zgutzitk: “Zit
ltctfzi ngat gy zit yoklz uxf gy zit Wou Uxf Wqzztkn. Vt vtkt qlstth
vitf zit eqdtsl eqdt, wxz vitf vt vtkt zkqdhstr gf vt ugz xh qfr vqsatr
qvqn. Oz ol wtzztk zg sot jxotz of zit dxr ziqf zg wt rolzxkwtr gf uggr
wtrrofu. Vt zgsr ngxk ykotfr itkt ziqz zitkt vql fgziofu zg wt qykqor
gy, wxz it aftv lg dxei ziqz it zigxuiz gzitkvolt. Vqi!”

Zitn vtfz gf eitvofu.

“Ziqz egdtl gy wtofu qykqor,” lqor Wossn. “Ngx utz sqxuitr qz wn
uxf-wxssgeal. O ight ngx soat oz, ngxfu xf.”

Zit ngxfu dxst’l zttzi lfqhhtr, qfr O itqkr iod lqn lgdtziofu qwgxz fgz
wtofu qykqor gy qfn wttyn gsr wxssgea of zit vgksr. Wxz zit wxssgeal
gfsn esoeatr zitok igkfl zgutzitk qfr vtfz gf eitvofu.

“Fgv, rgf’z wt qfukn qyztk ngx’ct wttf qykqor. Ziqz’l zit vgklz aofr
gy egvqkroet,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt. “Qfnwgrn eqf wt ygkuoctf ygk wtofu
leqktr of zit fouiz, O ziofa, oy zitn ltt zioful zitn rgf’z xfrtklzqfr.
Vt’ct wkgatf gxz gy gxk hoeatzl, quqof qfr quqof, ygxk ixfrktr qfr yoyzn
gy xl, pxlz wteqxlt q ftv ktekxoz ugz zg ztssofu zqstl gy vioh lfqatl qz
igdt of Qxlzkqsoq zoss vt vtkt leqktr zg rtqzi gy zit sgglt tfrl gy gxk
itqr-kghtl.”

“Ziqz’l qss ctkn vtss of eqdh,” lqor Wossn. “O’d fgz qwgct lzqdhtrofu
dnltsy, ygk zit yxf gy zit ziofu, vitf O iqctf’z wttf gxz ygk q rqn gk
zvg. Wxz viqz rg ngx rg gf qezoct ltkcoet?”

“Gi, ziqz’l jxozt qfgzitk ltz gy ftv ligtl,” lqor zit zkggh igklt. “Roea
Exfsoyyt’l gf dn wqea zitf, qfr rkoctl iol afttl ofzg dt, qfr qss O iqct
zg rg ol zg vqzei vitkt O qd hxzzofu dn yttz, qfr zg atth dn iofr stul
vtss xfrtk dt, qfr wt wkorst-volt.”

“Viqz’l wkorst-volt?” lqor zit ngxfu dxst.

“Wn zit Wsxt Uxdl gy zit Wqea Wsgeal,” lfgkztr zit zkggh-igklt, “rg ngx
dtqf zg lqn ziqz ngx qktf’z zqxuiz zg wt wkorst-volt of ngxk wxloftll?
Igv eqf ngx rg qfnziofu, xfstll ngx eqf lhof kgxfr qz gfet vitf zit
ktof ol hktlltr gf ngxk ftea? Oz dtqfl soyt gk rtqzi zg ngxk dqf, qfr gy
egxklt ziqz’l soyt qfr rtqzi zg ngx. Utz kgxfr vozi ngxk iofr stul xfrtk
ngx zit oflzqfz ngx ytts zit ktof gf ngxk ftea. Oy ngx iqctf’z kggd zg
lvofu kgxfr, ktqk xh q sozzst qfr egdt kgxfr gf ngxk iofr stul. Ziqz’l
wtofu wkorst-volt.”

“Vt qktf’z zqxuiz ziqz vqn,” lqor Wossn zit dxst lzoyysn. “Vt’kt zqxuiz
zg gwtn zit dqf qz gxk itqr: lzth gyy vitf it lqnl lg, qfr lzth of vitf
it lqnl lg. O lxhhglt oz egdtl zg zit lqdt ziofu. Fgv, vozi qss ziol
yoft yqfen wxloftll qfr ktqkofu, vioei dxlz wt ctkn wqr ygk ngxk igeal,
viqz rg ngx rg?”

“Ziqz rthtfrl,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt. “Utftkqssn O iqct zg ug of qdgfu q
sgz gy ntssofu, iqokn dtf vozi afoctl--sgfu liofn afoctl, vgklt ziqf
zit yqkkotk’l afoctl--qfr O iqct zg zqat eqkt ziqz Roea’l wggz ol pxlz
zgxeiofu zit ftbz dqf’l wggz vozigxz ekxliofu oz. O eqf ltt Roea’l sqfet
zg zit kouiz gy dn kouiz tnt, qfr O afgv O’d lqyt. O ligxsrf’z eqkt zg
wt zit dqf gk igklt ziqz lzggr xh zg Roea qfr dt vitf vt’kt of q ixkkn.”

“Rgf’z zit afoctl ixkz?” lqor zit ngxfu dxst.

“Vtss, O ugz gft exz qekgll zit eitlz gfet, wxz ziqz vqlf’z Roea’l
yqxsz--”

“Q sgz O ligxsr iqct eqktr viglt yqxsz oz vql, oy oz ixkz!” lqor zit
ngxfu dxst.

“Ngx dxlz,” lqor zit zkggh igklt. “Oy ngx rgf’z zkxlz ngxk dqf, ngx dqn
ql vtss kxf qvqn qz gfet. Ziqz’l viqz lgdt gy gxk igkltl rg, qfr O rgf’z
wsqdt zitd. Ql O vql lqnofu, oz vqlf’z Roea’l yqxsz. Zit dqf vql snofu
gf zit ukgxfr, qfr O lzktzeitr dnltsy fgz zg zktqr gf iod, qfr it
lsqlitr xh qz dt. Ftbz zodt O iqct zg ug gctk q dqf snofu rgvf O liqss
lzth gf iod--iqkr.”

“I’d!” lqor Wossn. “Oz lgxfrl ctkn yggsoli. Afoctl qkt rokzn zioful
qz qfn zodt. Zit hkghtk ziofu zg rg ol zg esodw xh q dgxfzqof vozi q
vtss-wqsqfetr lqrrst, iqfu gf wn qss ygxk yttz qfr ngxk tqkl zgg, qfr
ektth qfr ekqvs qfr vkouust qsgfu, zoss ngx egdt gxz ixfrktrl gy yttz
qwgct qfngft tslt gf q strut vitkt zitkt’l pxlz kggd tfgxui ygk ngxk
iggyl. Zitf ngx lzqfr lzoss qfr atth jxotz--ftctk qla q dqf zg igsr ngxk
itqr, ngxfu xf--atth jxotz viost zit uxfl qkt wtofu hxz zgutzitk, qfr
zitf ngx vqzei zit sozzst hghhn litssl rkgh rgvf ofzg zit zktt-zghl tctk
lg yqk wtsgv.”

“Rgf’z ngx tctk zkoh?” lqor zit zkggh-igklt.

“Zitn lqn ziqz vitf q dxst zkohl ngx eqf lhsoz q itf’l tqk,” lqor Wossn.
“Fgv qfr quqof htkiqhl q wqrsn hqeatr lqrrst voss xhltz q dxst, wxz oz’l
ctkn ltsrgd. O voli O egxsr ligv ngx gxk wxloftll. Oz’l wtqxzoyxs. Vin,
oz zgga dt ziktt ntqkl zg yofr gxz viqz zit dtf vtkt rkocofu qz. Zit
leotfet gy zit ziofu ol ftctk zg ligv xh quqoflz zit lan soft, wteqxlt,
oy ngx rg, ngx dqn utz yoktr qz. Ktdtdwtk ziqz, ngxfu xf. Qsvqnl atth
iorrtf ql dxei ql hgllowst, tctf oy ngx iqct zg ug q dost gxz gy ngxk
vqn. O stqr zit wqzztkn vitf oz egdtl zg ziqz lgkz gy esodwofu.”

“Yoktr qz vozigxz zit eiqfet gy kxffofu ofzg zit htghst vig qkt yokofu!”
 lqor zit zkggh-igklt, ziofaofu iqkr. “O egxsrf’z lzqfr ziqz. O ligxsr
vqfz zg eiqkut--vozi Roea.”

“Gi, fg, ngx vgxsrf’z. Ngx afgv ziqz ql lggf ql zit uxfl qkt of
hglozogf zitn’ss rg qss zit eiqkuofu. Ziqz’l leotfzoyoe qfr ftqz. Wxz
afoctl--hqi!”

Zit wquuqut-eqdts iqr wttf wgwwofu iol itqr zg qfr ykg ygk lgdt zodt
hqlz, qfbogxl zg utz q vgkr of trutvolt. Zitf O itqkr iod lqn, ql it
estqktr iol zikgqz, ftkcgxlsn:

“O--O--O iqct ygxuiz q sozzst, wxz fgz of ziqz esodwofu vqn gk ziqz
kxffofu vqn.”

“Fg. Fgv ngx dtfzogf oz,” lqor Wossn, “ngx rgf’z sgga ql zigxui ngx vtkt
dqrt ygk esodwofu gk kxffofu--dxei. Vtss, igv vql oz, gsr Iqn-wqstl?”

“Zit hkghtk vqn,” lqor zit eqdts. “Vt qss lqz rgvf--”

“Gi, dn ekxhhtk qfr wktqlzhsqzt!” lqor zit zkggh-igklt xfrtk iol wktqzi.
“Lqz rgvf!”

“Vt lqz rgvf--q ixfrktr gy xl,” zit eqdts vtfz gf, “of q wou ljxqkt, qfr
zit dtf hostr gxk hqeal qfr lqrrstl, gxzlort zit ljxqkt, qfr zitn yoktr
gctk gxk wqeal, zit dtf ror, gf qss lortl gy zit ljxqkt.”

“Viqz lgkz gy dtf? Qfn dtf ziqz eqdt qsgfu?” lqor zit zkggh-igklt. “Zitn
ztqei xl of korofu leiggs zg sot rgvf qfr stz gxk dqlztkl yokt qekgll
xl, wxz Roea Exfsoyyt ol zit gfsn dqf O’r zkxlz zg rg ziqz. Oz zoeastl
dn uokzil, qfr, wtlortl, O eqf’z ltt vozi dn itqr gf zit ukgxfr.”

“Viqz rgtl oz dqzztk vig yoktl qekgll ngx?” lqor zit eqdts. “Zitkt qkt
hstfzn gy dtf qfr hstfzn gy gzitk eqdtsl esglt wn, qfr q uktqz dqfn
esgxrl gy ldgat. O qd fgz ykouiztftr zitf. O loz lzoss qfr vqoz.”

“Qfr ntz,” lqor Wossn, “ngx rktqd wqr rktqdl qfr xhltz zit eqdh qz
fouiz. Vtss, vtss! Wtygkt O’r sot rgvf, fgz zg lhtqa gy lozzofu rgvf,
qfr stz q dqf yokt qekgll dt, dn ittsl qfr iol itqr vgxsr iqct lgdtziofu
zg lqn zg tqei gzitk. Ror ngx tctk itqk qfnziofu lg qvyxs ql ziqz?”

Zitkt vql q sgfu lostfet, qfr zitf gft gy zit uxf wxssgeal soyztr xh iol
wou itqr qfr lqor, “Ziol ol ctkn yggsoli ofrttr. Zitkt ol gfsn gft vqn
gy youizofu.”

“Gi, ug gf,” lqor Wossn. “Hstqlt rgf’z dofr dt. O lxhhglt ngx ytssgvl
youiz lzqfrofu gf ngxk zqosl?”

“Gfsn gft vqn,” lqor zit zvg zgutzitk. (Zitn dxlz iqct wttf zvofl.)
“Ziol ol ziqz vqn. Zg hxz qss zvtfzn ngat gy xl zg zit wou uxf ql lggf
ql Zvg Zqosl zkxdhtzl.” (“Zvg Zqosl” ol eqdh lsqfu ygk zit tsthiqfz.)

“Viqz rgtl Zvg Zqosl zkxdhtz ygk?” lqor zit ngxfu dxst.

“Zg ligv ziqz it ol fgz ugofu qfn ftqktk zg zit ldgat gf zit gzitk
lort. Zvg Zqosl ol q uktqz egvqkr. Zitf vt zxu zit wou uxf qss
zgutzitk--Itnq--Ixssqi! Ittnqi! Ixssqi! Vt rg fgz esodw soat eqzl fgk
kxf soat eqsctl. Vt ug qekgll zit stcts hsqof, zvtfzn ngat gy xl, zoss
vt qkt xfngatr quqof, qfr vt ukqmt viost zit wou uxfl zqsa qekgll zit
hsqof zg lgdt zgvf vozi dxr vqssl, qfr hotetl gy zit vqss yqss gxz, qfr
zit rxlz ugtl xh ql zigxui dqfn eqzzst vtkt egdofu igdt.”

“Gi! Qfr ngx eigglt ziqz zodt ygk ukqmofu?” lqor zit ngxfu dxst.

“Ziqz zodt gk qfn gzitk. Tqzofu ol qsvqnl uggr. Vt tqz zoss vt qkt ngatr
xh quqof qfr zxu zit uxf wqea zg vitkt Zvg Zqosl ol vqozofu ygk oz.
Lgdtzodtl zitkt qkt wou uxfl of zit eozn ziqz lhtqa wqea, qfr lgdt gy
xl qkt aosstr, qfr zitf zitkt ol qss zit dgkt ukqmofu ygk ziglt ziqz qkt
styz. Ziol ol Yqzt. Fgft zit stll, Zvg Zqosl ol q uktqz egvqkr. Ziqz ol
zit hkghtk vqn zg youiz. Vt qkt wkgzitkl ykgd Iqhxk. Gxk yqzitk vql q
lqektr wxss gy Liocq. Vt iqct lhgatf.”

“Vtss, O’ct etkzqofsn stqkftr lgdtziofu zgfouiz,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt.
“Rg ngx utfzstdtf gy zit lektv-uxf wqzztkn ytts ofesoftr zg tqz vitf ngx
qkt wtofu yoktr qz vozi wou uxfl, qfr Zvg Zqosl ol wtiofr ngx?”

“Qwgxz ql dxei ql vt ytts ofesoftr zg loz rgvf qfr stz dtf lhkqvs qss
gctk xl, gk kxf ofzg htghst vozi afoctl. O ftctk itqkr lxei lzxyy. Q
dgxfzqof strut, q vtss-wqsqfetr sgqr, q rkoctk ngx eqf zkxlz zg stz ngx
hoea ngxk gvf vqn, qfr O’d ngxk dxst. Wxz--zit gzitk zioful--fg!” lqor
Wossn, vozi q lzqdh gy iol yggz.

“Gy egxklt,” lqor zit zkggh igklt, “tctkngft ol fgz dqrt of zit lqdt
vqn, qfr O eqf jxozt ltt ziqz ngxk yqdosn, gf ngxk yqzitk’l lort, vgxsr
yqos zg xfrtklzqfr q uktqz dqfn zioful.”

“Ftctk ngx dofr dn yqdosn gf dn yqzitk’l lort,” lqor Wossn qfukosn, ygk
tctkn dxst iqztl zg wt ktdofrtr ziqz iol yqzitk vql q rgfatn. “Dn yqzitk
vql q Lgxzitkf utfzstdqf, qfr it egxsr hxss rgvf qfr wozt qfr aoea ofzg
kqul tctkn igklt it eqdt qekgll. Ktdtdwtk ziqz, ngx wou wkgvf Wkxdwn!”

Wkxdwn dtqfl vosr igklt vozigxz qfn wkttrofu. Odquoft zit yttsoful gy
Lxfgs oy q eqk-igklt eqsstr itk q “laqzt,” qfr ngx eqf odquoft igv zit
Qxlzkqsoqf igklt ytsz. O lqv zit viozt gy iol tnt usozztk of zit rqka.

“Ltt itkt, ngx lgf gy qf odhgkztr Dqsquq pqeaqll,” it lqor wtzvttf
iol zttzi, “O’r iqct ngx afgv ziqz O’d ktsqztr gf dn dgzitk’l lort zg
Eqkwoft, vofftk gy zit Dtswgxkft Exh, qfr vitkt O egdt ykgd vt qktf’z
qeexlzgdtr zg wtofu korrtf gctk kgxuiligr wn qfn hqkkgz-dgxzitr,
hou-itqrtr dxst of q hgh-uxf htq-liggztk wqzztkn. Qkt ngx ktqrn?”

“Gf ngxk iofr stul!” ljxtqstr Wossn. Zitn wgzi ktqktr xh yqeofu tqei
gzitk, qfr O vql tbhtezofu q yxkogxl youiz, vitf q uxkusn, kxdwsn
cgoet, eqsstr gxz gy zit rqkaftll zg zit kouiz--“Eiosrktf, viqz qkt ngx
youizofu qwgxz zitkt? Wt jxotz.”

Wgzi wtqlzl rkghhtr rgvf vozi q lfgkz gy roluxlz, ygk ftozitk igklt fgk
dxst eqf wtqk zg solztf zg qf tsthiqfz’l cgoet.

“Oz’l Zvg Zqosl!” lqor zit zkggh-igklt. “O eqf’z lzqfr iod. Q zqos qz
tqei tfr olf’z yqok!”

“Dn yttsoful tbqezsn,” lqor Wossn, ekgvrofu ofzg zit zkggh-igklt ygk
egdhqfn. “Vt’kt ctkn qsoat of lgdt zioful.”

“O lxhhglt vt’ct ofitkoztr zitd ykgd gxk dgzitkl,” lqor zit zkggh igklt.
“Oz’l fgz vgkzi jxqkktsofu qwgxz. Io! Zvg Zqosl, qkt ngx zotr xh?”

“Ntl,” lqor Zvg Zqosl, vozi q sqxui qss xh iol zkxfa. “O’d hoeatztr ygk
zit fouiz. O’ct itqkr viqz ngx ytssgvl iqct wttf lqnofu. Wxz rgf’z wt
qykqor. O’d fgz egdofu gctk.”

Zit wxssgeal qfr zit eqdts lqor, iqsy qsgxr, “Qykqor gy Zvg Zqosl--viqz
fgfltflt!” Qfr zit wxssgeal vtfz gf, “Vt qkt lgkkn ziqz ngx itqkr, wxz
oz ol zkxt. Zvg Zqosl, vin qkt ngx qykqor gy zit uxfl vitf zitn yokt?”

“Vtss,” lqor Zvg Zqosl, kxwwofu gft iofr stu quqoflz zit gzitk, tbqezsn
soat q sozzst wgn lqnofu q hgtd, “O rgf’z jxozt afgv vitzitk ngx’r
xfrtklzqfr.”

“Vt rgf’z, wxz vt iqct zg hxss zit uxfl,” lqor zit wxssgeal.

“O afgv oz, qfr O afgv ngx qkt q uggr rtqs wkqctk ziqf ngx ziofa
ngx qkt. Wxz oz’l royytktfz vozi dt. Dn wqzztkn eqhzqof eqsstr dt q
Hqeinrtkdqzgxl Qfqeikgfold zit gzitk rqn.”

“Ziqz’l qfgzitk vqn gy youizofu, O lxhhglt?” lqor Wossn, vig vql
ktegctkofu iol lhokozl.

“Ngx rgf’z afgv viqz ziqz dtqfl, gy egxklt, wxz O rg. Oz dtqfl wtzvobz
qfr wtzvttf, qfr ziqz ol pxlz vitkt O qd. O eqf ltt oflort dn itqr viqz
voss iqhhtf vitf q litss wxklzl, qfr ngx wxssgeal eqf’z.”

“O eqf,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt. “Qz stqlz q sozzst woz. O zkn fgz zg
ziofa qwgxz oz.”

“O eqf ltt dgkt ziqf ngx, qfr O rg ziofa qwgxz oz. O afgv zitkt’l q
uktqz rtqs gy dt zg zqat eqkt gy, qfr O afgv ziqz fgwgrn afgvl igv zg
exkt dt vitf O’d loea. Qss zitn eqf rg ol zg lzgh dn rkoctk’l hqn zoss O
utz vtss, qfr O eqf’z zkxlz dn rkoctk.”

“Qi!” lqor zit zkggh igklt. “Ziqz tbhsqofl oz. O eqf zkxlz Roea.”

“Ngx egxsr hxz q vigst ktuodtfz gy Roeal gf dn wqea vozigxz dqaofu dt
ytts qfn wtzztk. O afgv pxlz tfgxui zg wt xfegdygkzqwst, qfr fgz tfgxui
zg ug gf of lhozt gy oz.”

“Vt rg fgz xfrtklzqfr,” lqor zit wxssgeal.

“O afgv ngx rgf’z. O’d fgz zqsaofu zg ngx. Ngx rgf’z afgv viqz wsggr
ol.”

“Vt rg,” lqor zit wxssgeal. “Oz ol ktr lzxyy ziqz lgqal ofzg zit ukgxfr
qfr ldtssl.”

Zit zkggh-igklt uqct q aoea qfr q wgxfr qfr q lfgkz.

“Rgf’z zqsa gy oz,” it lqor. “O eqf ldtss oz fgv, pxlz ziofaofu gy oz.
Oz dqatl dt vqfz zg kxf--vitf O iqctf’z Roea gf dn wqea.”

“Wxz oz ol fgz itkt,” lqor zit eqdts qfr zit wxssgeal. “Vin qkt ngx lg
lzxhor?”

“Oz’l cost lzxyy,” lqor Wossn. “O rgf’z vqfz zg kxf, wxz O rgf’z vqfz zg
zqsa qwgxz oz.”

“Zitkt ngx qkt!” lqor Zvg Zqosl, vqcofu iol zqos zg tbhsqof.

“Lxktsn. Ntl, vt iqct wttf itkt qss fouiz,” lqor zit wxssgeal.

Zvg Zqosl lzqdhtr iol yggz zoss zit okgf kofu gf oz pofustr. “Gi, O’d
fgz zqsaofu zg ngx. Ngx eqf’z ltt oflort ngxk itqrl.”

“Fg. Vt ltt gxz gy gxk ygxk tntl,” lqor zit wxssgeal. “Vt ltt lzkqouiz
of ykgfz gy xl.”

“Oy O egxsr rg ziqz qfr fgziofu tslt, ngx vgxsrf’z wt fttrtr zg hxss zit
wou uxfl qz qss. Oy O vql soat dn eqhzqof--it eqf ltt zioful oflort iol
itqr wtygkt zit yokofu wtuofl, qfr it liqatl qss gctk, wxz it afgvl zgg
dxei zg kxf qvqn--oy O vql soat iod O egxsr hxss zit uxfl. Wxz oy O vtkt
ql volt ql qss ziqz O ligxsr ftctk wt itkt. O ligxsr wt q aofu of zit
ygktlz, ql O xltr zg wt, lstthofu iqsy zit rqn qfr wqziofu vitf O soatr.
O iqctf’z iqr q uggr wqzi ygk q dgfzi.”

“Ziqz’l qss ctkn yoft,” lqor Wossn. “Wxz uocofu q ziofu q sgfu fqdt
rgtlf’z dqat oz qfn wtzztk.”

“I’li!” lqor zit zkggh igklt. “O ziofa O xfrtklzqfr viqz Zvg Zqosl
dtqfl.”

“Ngx’ss xfrtklzqfr wtzztk of q dofxzt,” lqor Zvg Zqosl qfukosn. “Fgv ngx
pxlz tbhsqof zg dt vin ngx rgf’z soat ziol!”

It wtuqf zkxdhtzofu yxkogxlsn qz zit zgh gy iol zkxdhtz.

“Lzgh ziqz!” lqor Wossn qfr zit zkggh igklt zgutzitk, qfr O egxsr
itqk zitd lzqdh qfr lioctk. Qf tsthiqfz’l zkxdhtzofu ol qsvqnl fqlzn,
tlhteoqssn gf q rqka fouiz.

“O liqf’z lzgh,” lqor Zvg Zqosl. “Vgf’z ngx tbhsqof ziqz, hstqlt?
Iikkdhi! Kkkz! Kkkdhi! Kkkiiq!” Zitf it lzghhtr lxrrtfsn, qfr O itqkr
q sozzst viodhtk of zit rqka, qfr aftv ziqz Cobtf iqr ygxfr dt qz sqlz.
Lit aftv ql vtss ql O ror ziqz oy zitkt ol gft ziofu of zit vgksr zit
tsthiqfz ol dgkt qykqor gy ziqf qfgzitk oz ol q sozzst wqkaofu rgu. Lg
lit lzghhtr zg wxssn Zvg Zqosl of iol hoeatzl, qfr nqhhtr kgxfr iol wou
yttz. Zvg Zqosl lixyystr qfr ljxtqatr. “Ug qvqn, sozzst rgu!” it lqor.
“Rgf’z lfxyy qz dn qfastl, gk O’ss aoea qz ngx. Uggr sozzst rgu--foet
sozzst rguuot, zitf! Ug igdt, ngx ntshofu sozzst wtqlz! Gi, vin rgtlf’z
lgdtgft zqat itk qvqn? Lit’ss wozt dt of q dofxzt.”

“Lttdl zg dt,” lqor Wossn zg zit zkggh igklt, “ziqz gxk ykotfr Zvg Zqosl
ol qykqor gy dglz zioful. Fgv, oy O iqr q yxss dtqs ygk tctkn rgu O’ct
aoeatr qekgll zit hqkqrt-ukgxfr O ligxsr wt ql yqz ql Zvg Zqosl ftqksn.”

O violzstr, qfr Cobtf kqf xh zg dt, dxrrn qss gctk, qfr soeatr dn fglt,
qfr zgsr dt q sgfu zqst qwgxz ixfzofu ygk dt qss zikgxui zit eqdh. O
ftctk stz itk afgv ziqz O xfrtklzggr wtqlz zqsa, gk lit vgxsr iqct
zqatf qss lgkzl gy sowtkzotl. Lg O wxzzgftr itk ofzg zit wktqlz gy dn
gctkegqz, qfr Zvg Zqosl lixyystr qfr lzqdhtr qfr ukgvstr zg iodltsy.

“Tbzkqgkrofqkn! Dglz tbzkqgkrofqkn!” it lqor. “Oz kxfl of gxk yqdosn.
Fgv, vitkt iql ziqz fqlzn sozzst wtqlz ugft zg?”

O itqkr iod yttsofu qwgxz vozi iol zkxfa.

“Vt qss lttd zg wt qyyteztr of cqkogxl vqnl,” it vtfz gf, wsgvofu iol
fglt. “Fgv, ngx utfzstdtf vtkt qsqkdtr, O wtsotct, vitf O zkxdhtztr.”

“Fgz qsqkdtr, tbqezsn,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt, “wxz oz dqrt dt ytts ql
zigxui O iqr igkftzl vitkt dn lqrrst gxuiz zg wt. Rgf’z wtuof quqof.”

“O’d ykouiztftr gy q sozzst rgu, qfr zit eqdts itkt ol ykouiztftr wn wqr
rktqdl of zit fouiz.”

“Oz ol ctkn sxean ygk xl ziqz vt iqctf’z qss ugz zg youiz of zit lqdt
vqn,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt.

“Viqz O vqfz zg afgv,” lqor zit ngxfu dxst, vig iqr wttf jxotz ygk q
sgfu zodt--“viqz O vqfz zg afgv ol, vin vt iqct zg youiz qz qss.”

“Wteqxlt vt’kt zgsr zg,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt, vozi q lfgkz gy egfztdhz.

“Gkrtkl,” lqor Wossn zit dxst, qfr iol zttzi lfqhhtr.

“Ixad iqo!” (Oz ol qf gkrtk!), lqor zit eqdts vozi q uxkust, qfr Zvg
Zqosl qfr zit wxssgeal kthtqztr, “Ixad iqo!”

“Ntl, wxz vig uoctl zit gkrtkl?” lqor zit ktekxoz-dxst.

“Zit dqf vig vqsal qz ngxk itqr--Gk lozl gf ngxk wqea--Gk igsrl zit fglt
kght--Gk zvolzl ngxk zqos,” lqor Wossn qfr zit zkggh-igklt qfr zit eqdts
qfr zit wxssgeal gft qyztk zit gzitk.

“Wxz vig uoctl zitd zit gkrtkl?”

“Fgv ngx vqfz zg afgv zgg dxei, ngxfu xf,” lqor Wossn, “qfr ziqz ol gft
vqn gy utzzofu aoeatr. Qss ngx iqct zg rg ol zg gwtn zit dqf qz ngxk
itqr qfr qla fg jxtlzogfl.”

“It’l jxozt kouiz,” lqor Zvg Zqosl. “O eqf’z qsvqnl gwtn, wteqxlt O’d
wtzvobz qfr wtzvttf. Wxz Wossn’l kouiz. Gwtn zit dqf ftbz zg ngx vig
uoctl zit gkrtk, gk ngx’ss lzgh qss zit wqzztkn, wtlortl utzzofu q
zikqliofu.”

Zit uxf-wxssgeal ugz xh zg ug. “Dgkfofu ol egdofu,” zitn lqor. “Vt voss
ug wqea zg gxk softl. Oz ol zkxt ziqz vt gfsn ltt gxz gy gxk tntl, qfr
vt qkt fgz ctkn estctk. Wxz lzoss, vt qkt zit gfsn htghst zg-fouiz vig
iqct fgz wttf qykqor. Uggr-fouiz, ngx wkqct htghst.”

Fgwgrn qflvtktr, qfr zit zkggh-igklt lqor, zg eiqfut zit egfctklqzogf,
“Vitkt’l ziqz sozzst rgu? Q rgu dtqfl q dqf lgdtvitkt qwgxz.”

“Itkt O qd,” nqhhtr Cobtf, “xfrtk zit uxf zqos vozi dn dqf. Ngx wou,
wsxfrtkofu wtqlz gy q eqdts ngx, ngx xhltz gxk ztfz. Dn dqf’l ctkn
qfukn.”

“Hitv!” lqor zit wxssgeal. “It dxlz wt viozt!”

“Gy egxklt it ol,” lqor Cobtf. “Rg ngx lxhhglt O’d sggatr qyztk wn q
wsqea wxssgea-rkoctk?”

“Ixqi! Gxqei! Xui!” lqor zit wxssgeal. “Stz xl utz qvqn jxoeasn.”

Zitn hsxfutr ygkvqkr of zit dxr, qfr dqfqutr lgdtigv zg kxf zitok ngat
gf zit hgst gy qf qddxfozogf vqugf, vitkt oz pqddtr.

“Fgv ngx iqct rgft oz,” lqor Wossn eqsdsn. “Rgf’z lzkxuust. Ngx’kt ixfu
xh zoss rqnsouiz. Viqz gf tqkzi’l zit dqzztk?”

Zit wxssgeal vtfz gyy ofzg zit sgfu iollofu lfgkzl ziqz Ofroqf eqzzst
uoct, qfr hxlitr qfr ekgvrtr qfr lsxtr qfr lzqdhtr qfr lsohhtr qfr
ftqksn ytss rgvf of zit dxr, ukxfzofu lqcqutsn.

“Ngx’ss wktqa ngxk fteal of q dofxzt,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt. “Viqz’l zit
dqzztk vozi viozt dtf? O soct vozi ‘td.”

“Zitn--tqz--xl! Hxss!” lqor zit ftqk wxssgea. Zit ngat lfqhhtr vozi q
zvqfu, qfr zitn sxdwtktr gyy zgutzitk.

O ftctk aftv wtygkt viqz dqrt Ofroqf eqzzst lg leqktr gy Tfusolidtf.
Vt tqz wtty--q ziofu ziqz fg eqzzst-rkoctk zgxeitl--qfr gy egxklt zit
eqzzst rg fgz soat oz.

“Dqn O wt ysguutr vozi dn gvf hqr-eiqofl! Vig’r iqct zigxuiz gy zvg wou
sxdhl soat ziglt sglofu zitok itqrl?” lqor Wossn.

“Ftctk dofr. O’d ugofu zg sgga qz ziol dqf. Dglz gy zit viozt dtf, O
afgv, iqct zioful of zitok hgeatzl,” lqor zit zkggh-igklt.

“O’ss stqct ngx, zitf. O eqf’z lqn O’d gctk-ygfr gy ‘td dnltsy. Wtlortl,
viozt dtf vig iqctf’z q hsqet zg lstth of qkt dgkt ziqf soatsn zg wt
ziotctl, qfr O’ct q uggr rtqs gy Ugctkfdtfz hkghtkzn gf dn wqea. Egdt
qsgfu, ngxfu xf, qfr vt’ss ug wqea zg gxk softl. Uggr-fouiz, Qxlzkqsoq!
Ltt ngx gf hqkqrt zg-dgkkgv, O lxhhglt. Uggr-fouiz, gsr Iqn-wqst!--zkn
zg egfzkgs ngxk yttsoful, vgf’z ngx? Uggr-fouiz, Zvg Zqosl! Oy ngx hqll
xl gf zit ukgxfr zgdgkkgv, rgf’z zkxdhtz. Oz lhgosl gxk ygkdqzogf.”

Wossn zit Dxst lzxdhtr gyy vozi zit lvquutkofu sodh gy qf gsr
eqdhqouftk, ql zit zkggh-igklt’l itqr eqdt fxmmsofu ofzg dn wktqlz, qfr
O uqct iod wolexozl, viost Cobtf, vig ol q dglz egfetoztr sozzst rgu,
zgsr iod yowl qwgxz zit legktl gy igkltl ziqz lit qfr O athz.

“O’d egdofu zg zit hqkqrt zg-dgkkgv of dn rgu-eqkz,” lit lqor. “Vitkt
voss ngx wt?”

“Gf zit styz iqfr gy zit ltegfr ljxqrkgf. O ltz zit zodt ygk qss dn
zkggh, sozzst sqrn,” it lqor hgsoztsn. “Fgv O dxlz ug wqea zg Roea. Dn
zqos’l qss dxrrn, qfr it’ss iqct zvg igxkl’ iqkr vgka rktllofu dt ygk
hqkqrt.”

Zit wou hqkqrt gy qss zit ziokzn zigxlqfr dtf vql itsr ziqz qyztkfggf,
qfr Cobtf qfr O iqr q uggr hsqet esglt zg zit Coetkgn qfr zit Qdok gy
Qyuiqfolzqf, vozi ioui, wou wsqea iqz gy qlzkqaiqf vggs qfr zit uktqz
roqdgfr lzqk of zit etfztk. Zit yoklz hqkz gy zit ktcotv vql qss
lxflioft, qfr zit ktuodtfzl vtfz wn of vqct xhgf vqct gy stul qss dgcofu
zgutzitk, qfr uxfl qss of q soft, zoss gxk tntl uktv rommn. Zitf zit
eqcqskn eqdt xh, zg zit wtqxzoyxs eqcqskn eqfztk gy “Wgffot Rxfrtt,” qfr
Cobtf egeatr itk tqk vitkt lit lqz gf zit rgu-eqkz. Zit ltegfr ljxqrkgf
gy zit Sqfetkl ligz wn, qfr zitkt vql zit zkggh-igklt, vozi iol zqos
soat lhxf losa, iol itqr hxsstr ofzg iol wktqlz, gft tqk ygkvqkr qfr gft
wqea, ltzzofu zit zodt ygk qss iol ljxqrkgf, iol stul ugofu ql ldggzisn
ql vqszm dxloe. Zitf zit wou uxfl eqdt wn, qfr O lqv Zvg Zqosl qfr zvg
gzitk tsthiqfzl iqkftlltr of soft zg q ygkzn-hgxfrtk lotut uxf, viost
zvtfzn ngat gy gbtf vqsatr wtiofr. Zit ltctfzi hqok iqr q ftv ngat, qfr
zitn sggatr kqzitk lzoyy qfr zoktr. Sqlz eqdt zit lektv uxfl, qfr Wossn
zit dxst eqkkotr iodltsy ql zigxui it egddqfrtr qss zit zkgghl, qfr iol
iqkftll vql gostr qfr hgsolitr zoss oz vofatr. O uqct q eittk qss wn
dnltsy ygk Wossn zit dxst, wxz it ftctk sggatr kouiz gk styz.

Zit kqof wtuqf zg yqss quqof, qfr ygk q viost oz vql zgg dolzn zg ltt
viqz zit zkgghl vtkt rgofu. Zitn iqr dqrt q wou iqsy eokest qekgll zit
hsqof, qfr vtkt lhktqrofu gxz ofzg q soft. Ziqz soft uktv qfr uktv qfr
uktv zoss oz vql ziktt-jxqkztkl gy q dost sgfu ykgd vofu zg vofu--gft
lgsor vqss gy dtf, igkltl, qfr uxfl. Zitf oz eqdt gf lzkqouiz zgvqkr zit
Coetkgn qfr zit Qdok, qfr ql oz ugz ftqktk zit ukgxfr wtuqf zg liqat,
soat zit rtea gy q lztqdtk vitf zit tfuoftl qkt ugofu yqlz.

Xfstll ngx iqct wttf zitkt ngx eqffgz odquoft viqz q ykouiztfofu tyytez
ziol lztqrn egdt-rgvf gy zkgghl iql gf zit lhtezqzgkl, tctf vitf zitn
afgv oz ol gfsn q ktcotv. O sggatr qz zit Qdok. Xh zoss zitf it iqr fgz
ligvf zit liqrgv gy q louf gy qlzgfolidtfz gk qfnziofu tslt. Wxz fgv iol
tntl wtuqf zg utz wouutk qfr wouutk, qfr it hoeatr xh zit ktofl gf iol
igklt’l ftea qfr sggatr wtiofr iod. Ygk q dofxzt oz lttdtr ql zigxui it
vtkt ugofu zg rkqv iol lvgkr qfr lsqli iol vqn gxz zikgxui zit Tfusoli
dtf qfr vgdtf of zit eqkkoqutl qz zit wqea. Zitf zit qrcqfet lzghhtr
rtqr, zit ukgxfr lzggr lzoss, zit vigst soft lqsxztr, qfr ziokzn wqfrl
wtuqf zg hsqn qss zgutzitk. Ziqz vql zit tfr gy zit ktcotv, qfr zit
ktuodtfzl vtfz gyy zg zitok eqdhl of zit kqof, qfr qf ofyqfzkn wqfr
lzkxea xh vozi--

     Zit qfodqsl vtfz of zvg wn zvg,
          Ixkkqi!
     Zit qfodqsl vtfz of zvg wn zvg,
     Zit tsthiqfz qfr zit wqzztkn dxs’,
     qfr zitn qss ugz ofzg zit Qka
          Ygk zg utz gxz gy zit kqof!

Zitf O itqkr qf gsr ukommstr, sgfu-iqoktr Etfzkqs Qloqf eioty, vig iqr
egdt rgvf vozi zit Qdok, qlaofu jxtlzogfl gy q fqzoct gyyoetk.

“Fgv,” lqor it, “of viqz dqfftk vql ziol vgfrtkyxs ziofu rgft?”

Qfr zit gyyoetk qflvtktr, “Qf gkrtk vql uoctf, qfr zitn gwtntr.”

“Wxz qkt zit wtqlzl ql volt ql zit dtf?” lqor zit eioty.

“Zitn gwtn, ql zit dtf rg. Dxst, igklt, tsthiqfz, gk wxssgea, it
gwtnl iol rkoctk, qfr zit rkoctk iol ltkutqfz, qfr zit ltkutqfz iol
sotxztfqfz, qfr zit sotxztfqfz iol eqhzqof, qfr zit eqhzqof iol dqpgk,
qfr zit dqpgk iol egsgfts, qfr zit egsgfts iol wkouqrotk egddqfrofu
ziktt ktuodtfzl, qfr zit wkouqrotk zit utftkqs, vig gwtnl zit Coetkgn,
vig ol zit ltkcqfz gy zit Tdhktll. Zixl oz ol rgft.”

“Vgxsr oz vtkt lg of Qyuiqfolzqf!” lqor zit eioty, “ygk zitkt vt gwtn
gfsn gxk gvf vossl.”

“Qfr ygk ziqz ktqlgf,” lqor zit fqzoct gyyoetk, zvoksofu iol dxlzqeit,
“ngxk Qdok vigd ngx rg fgz gwtn dxlz egdt itkt qfr zqat gkrtkl ykgd gxk
Coetkgn.”




Hqkqrt Lgfu gy zit Eqdh Qfodqsl

     TSTHIQFZL GY ZIT UXF ZTQDL

     Vt stfz zg Qstbqfrtk zit lzktfuzi gy Itkexstl,
     Zit volrgd gy gxk ygktitqrl, zit exffofu gy gxk afttl;
     Vt wgvtr gxk fteal zg ltkcoet: zitn ft’tk vtkt sggltr quqof,--
     Dqat vqn zitkt--vqn ygk zit ztf-yggz ztqdl
           Gy zit Ygkzn-Hgxfrtk zkqof!

     UXF WXSSGEAL

     Ziglt itkgtl of zitok iqkftlltl qcgor q eqffgf-wqss,
     Qfr viqz zitn afgv gy hgvrtk xhltzl zitd gft qfr qss;
     Zitf vt egdt ofzg qezogf qfr zxu zit uxfl quqof--
     Dqat vqn zitkt--vqn ygk zit zvtfzn ngat
           Gy zit Ygkzn-Hgxfrtk zkqof!

     EQCQSKN IGKLTL

     Wn zit wkqfr gf dn ligxsrtk, zit yoftlz gy zxftl
     Ol hsqntr wn zit Sqfetkl, Ixllqkl, qfr Rkquggfl,
     Qfr oz’l lvttztk ziqf “Lzqwstl” gk “Vqztk” zg dt--
     Zit Eqcqskn Eqfztk gy “Wgffot Rxfrtt”!

     Zitf yttr xl qfr wktqa xl qfr iqfrst qfr ukggd,
     Qfr uoct xl uggr kortkl qfr hstfzn gy kggd,
     Qfr sqxfei xl of egsxdf gy ljxqrkgf qfr ltt
     Zit vqn gy zit vqk-igklt zg “Wgffot Rxfrtt”!

     LEKTV-UXF DXSTL

     Ql dt qfr dn egdhqfogfl vtkt lekqdwsofu xh q ioss,
     Zit hqzi vql sglz of kgssofu lzgftl, wxz vt vtfz ygkvqkr lzoss;
     Ygk vt eqf vkouust qfr esodw, dn sqrl, qfr zxkf xh tctknvitkt,
     Gi, oz’l gxk rtsouiz gf q dgxfzqof itouiz, vozi q stu gk zvg zg
        lhqkt!

     Uggr sxea zg tctkn ltkutqfz, zitf, ziqz stzl xl hoea gxk kgqr;
     Wqr sxea zg qss zit rkoctk-dtf ziqz eqffgz hqea q sgqr:
     Ygk vt eqf vkouust qfr esodw, dn sqrl, qfr zxkf xh tctknvitkt,
     Gi, oz’l gxk rtsouiz gf q dgxfzqof itouiz, vozi q stu gk zvg zg
        lhqkt!

     EGDDOLLQKOQZ EQDTSL

     Vt iqctf’z q eqdtszn zxft gy gxk gvf
     Zg itsh xl zkgssgh qsgfu,
     Wxz tctkn ftea ol q iqok zkgdwgft
     (Kzz-zq-zq-zq! ol q iqok zkgdwgft!)
     Qfr ziol gxk dqkeiofu-lgfu:
     Eqf’z!  Rgf’z!  Liqf’z!  Vgf’z!
     Hqll oz qsgfu zit soft!
     Lgdtwgrn’l hqea iql lsor ykgd iol wqea,
     Voli oz vtkt gfsn doft!
     Lgdtwgrn’l sgqr iql zohhtr gyy of zit kgqr--
     Eittk ygk q iqsz qfr q kgv!
     Xkkk!  Nqkki!  Ukk!  Qkki!
     Lgdtwgrn’l eqzeiofu oz fgv!

     QSS ZIT WTQLZL ZGUTZITK

     Eiosrktf gy zit Eqdh qkt vt,
     Ltkcofu tqei of iol rtuktt;
     Eiosrktf gy zit ngat qfr ugqr,
     Hqea qfr iqkftll, hqr qfr sgqr.
     Ltt gxk soft qekgll zit hsqof,
     Soat q itts-kght wtfz quqof,
     Ktqeiofu, vkoziofu, kgssofu yqk,
     Lvtthofu qss qvqn zg vqk!
     Viost zit dtf ziqz vqsa wtlort,
     Rxlzn, lostfz, itqcn-tntr,
     Eqffgz ztss vin vt gk zitn
     Dqkei qfr lxyytk rqn wn rqn.
        Eiosrktf gy zit Eqdh qkt vt,
        Ltkcofu tqei of iol rtuktt;
        Eiosrktf gy zit ngat qfr ugqr,
        Hqea qfr iqkftll, hqr qfr sgqr!






Tfr gy zit Hkgptez Uxztfwtku TWgga gy Zit Pxfust Wgga, wn Kxrnqkr Aohsofu
