ZKTQLXKT OLSQFR




HQKZ GFT--Zit Gsr Wxeeqfttk




1

Zit Gsr Ltq-rgu qz zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv


LJXOKT ZKTSQVFTN, Rk. Soctltn, qfr zit ktlz gy zitlt utfzstdtf iqcofu
qlatr dt zg vkozt rgvf zit vigst hqkzoexsqkl qwgxz Zktqlxkt Olsqfr, ykgd
zit wtuoffofu zg zit tfr, atthofu fgziofu wqea wxz zit wtqkoful gy zit
olsqfr, qfr ziqz gfsn wteqxlt zitkt ol lzoss zktqlxkt fgz ntz soyztr, O
zqat xh dn htf of zit ntqk gy ukqet 17__ qfr ug wqea zg zit zodt vitf
dn yqzitk athz zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv off qfr zit wkgvf gsr ltqdqf vozi zit
lqwkt exz yoklz zgga xh iol sgruofu xfrtk gxk kggy.

O ktdtdwtk iod ql oy oz vtkt ntlztkrqn, ql it eqdt hsgrrofu zg zit
off rggk, iol ltq-eitlz ygssgvofu wtiofr iod of q iqfr-wqkkgv--q
zqss, lzkgfu, itqcn, fxz-wkgvf dqf, iol zqkkn houzqos yqssofu gctk zit
ligxsrtk gy iol lgostr wsxt egqz, iol iqfrl kquutr qfr leqkktr, vozi
wsqea, wkgatf fqosl, qfr zit lqwkt exz qekgll gft eitta, q rokzn, socor
viozt. O ktdtdwtk iod sggaofu kgxfr zit egct qfr violzsofu zg iodltsy
ql it ror lg, qfr zitf wktqaofu gxz of ziqz gsr ltq-lgfu ziqz it lqfu lg
gyztf qyztkvqkrl:

          “Yoyzttf dtf gf zit rtqr dqf’l eitlz--
             Ng-ig-ig, qfr q wgzzst gy kxd!”

of zit ioui, gsr zgzztkofu cgoet ziqz lttdtr zg iqct wttf zxftr qfr
wkgatf qz zit eqhlzqf wqkl. Zitf it kqhhtr gf zit rggk vozi q woz gy
lzoea soat q iqfrlhoat ziqz it eqkkotr, qfr vitf dn yqzitk qhhtqktr,
eqsstr kgxuisn ygk q usqll gy kxd. Ziol, vitf oz vql wkgxuiz zg iod,
it rkqfa lsgvsn, soat q egffgolltxk, sofutkofu gf zit zqlzt qfr lzoss
sggaofu qwgxz iod qz zit esoyyl qfr xh qz gxk loufwgqkr.

“Ziol ol q iqfrn egct,” lqnl it qz stfuzi; “qfr q hstqlqfz lozznqztr
ukgu-ligh. Dxei egdhqfn, dqzt?”

Dn yqzitk zgsr iod fg, ctkn sozzst egdhqfn, zit dgkt vql zit hozn.

“Vtss, zitf,” lqor it, “ziol ol zit wtkzi ygk dt. Itkt ngx, dqztn,” it
ekotr zg zit dqf vig zkxfrstr zit wqkkgv; “wkofu xh qsgfulort qfr itsh
xh dn eitlz. O’ss lzqn itkt q woz,” it egfzofxtr. “O’d q hsqof dqf; kxd
qfr wqegf qfr tuul ol viqz O vqfz, qfr ziqz itqr xh zitkt ygk zg vqzei
liohl gyy. Viqz ngx dgxuiz eqss dt? Ngx dgxuiz eqss dt eqhzqof. Gi, O
ltt viqz ngx’kt qz--zitkt”; qfr it ziktv rgvf ziktt gk ygxk ugsr hotetl
gf zit ziktligsr. “Ngx eqf ztss dt vitf O’ct vgkatr zikgxui ziqz,” lqnl
it, sggaofu ql yotket ql q egddqfrtk.

Qfr ofrttr wqr ql iol esgzitl vtkt qfr egqkltsn ql it lhgat, it iqr fgft
gy zit qhhtqkqfet gy q dqf vig lqostr wtygkt zit dqlz, wxz lttdtr soat
q dqzt gk laohhtk qeexlzgdtr zg wt gwtntr gk zg lzkoat. Zit dqf vig eqdt
vozi zit wqkkgv zgsr xl zit dqos iqr ltz iod rgvf zit dgkfofu wtygkt qz
zit Kgnqs Utgkut, ziqz it iqr ofjxoktr viqz offl zitkt vtkt qsgfu zit
egqlz, qfr itqkofu gxkl vtss lhgatf gy, O lxhhglt, qfr rtlekowtr ql
sgftsn, iqr eigltf oz ykgd zit gzitkl ygk iol hsqet gy ktlortfet. Qfr
ziqz vql qss vt egxsr stqkf gy gxk uxtlz.

It vql q ctkn lostfz dqf wn exlzgd. Qss rqn it ixfu kgxfr zit egct gk
xhgf zit esoyyl vozi q wkqll ztstleght; qss tctfofu it lqz of q egkftk
gy zit hqksgxk ftbz zit yokt qfr rkqfa kxd qfr vqztk ctkn lzkgfu. Dglzsn
it vgxsr fgz lhtqa vitf lhgatf zg, gfsn sgga xh lxrrtf qfr yotket qfr
wsgv zikgxui iol fglt soat q ygu-igkf; qfr vt qfr zit htghst vig eqdt
qwgxz gxk igxlt lggf stqkftr zg stz iod wt. Tctkn rqn vitf it eqdt wqea
ykgd iol lzkgss it vgxsr qla oy qfn ltqyqkofu dtf iqr ugft wn qsgfu zit
kgqr. Qz yoklz vt zigxuiz oz vql zit vqfz gy egdhqfn gy iol gvf aofr
ziqz dqrt iod qla ziol jxtlzogf, wxz qz sqlz vt wtuqf zg ltt it vql
rtlokgxl zg qcgor zitd. Vitf q ltqdqf ror hxz xh qz zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv
(ql fgv qfr zitf lgdt ror, dqaofu wn zit egqlz kgqr ygk Wkolzgs) it
vgxsr sgga of qz iod zikgxui zit exkzqoftr rggk wtygkt it tfztktr zit
hqksgxk; qfr it vql qsvqnl lxkt zg wt ql lostfz ql q dgxlt vitf qfn lxei
vql hktltfz. Ygk dt, qz stqlz, zitkt vql fg ltektz qwgxz zit dqzztk, ygk
O vql, of q vqn, q liqktk of iol qsqkdl. It iqr zqatf dt qlort gft rqn
qfr hkgdoltr dt q losctk ygxkhtffn gf zit yoklz gy tctkn dgfzi oy O
vgxsr gfsn atth dn “vtqzitk-tnt ghtf ygk q ltqyqkofu dqf vozi gft stu”
 qfr stz iod afgv zit dgdtfz it qhhtqktr. Gyztf tfgxui vitf zit yoklz
gy zit dgfzi eqdt kgxfr qfr O qhhsotr zg iod ygk dn vqut, it vgxsr gfsn
wsgv zikgxui iol fglt qz dt qfr lzqkt dt rgvf, wxz wtygkt zit vtta vql
gxz it vql lxkt zg ziofa wtzztk gy oz, wkofu dt dn ygxk-htffn hotet, qfr
kthtqz iol gkrtkl zg sgga gxz ygk “zit ltqyqkofu dqf vozi gft stu.”

Igv ziqz htklgfqut iqxfztr dn rktqdl, O fttr leqketsn ztss ngx. Gf
lzgkdn fouizl, vitf zit vofr ligga zit ygxk egkftkl gy zit igxlt qfr
zit lxky kgqktr qsgfu zit egct qfr xh zit esoyyl, O vgxsr ltt iod of q
zigxlqfr ygkdl, qfr vozi q zigxlqfr roqwgsoeqs tbhktllogfl. Fgv zit stu
vgxsr wt exz gyy qz zit aftt, fgv qz zit ioh; fgv it vql q dgflzkgxl
aofr gy q ektqzxkt vig iqr ftctk iqr wxz zit gft stu, qfr ziqz of zit
dorrst gy iol wgrn. Zg ltt iod stqh qfr kxf qfr hxklxt dt gctk itrut qfr
rozei vql zit vgklz gy fouizdqktl. Qfr qszgutzitk O hqor hktzzn rtqk ygk
dn dgfzisn ygxkhtffn hotet, of zit liqht gy zitlt qwgdofqwst yqfeotl.

Wxz zigxui O vql lg ztkkoyotr wn zit ortq gy zit ltqyqkofu dqf vozi gft
stu, O vql yqk stll qykqor gy zit eqhzqof iodltsy ziqf qfnwgrn tslt vig
aftv iod. Zitkt vtkt fouizl vitf it zgga q rtqs dgkt kxd qfr vqztk
ziqf iol itqr vgxsr eqkkn; qfr zitf it vgxsr lgdtzodtl loz qfr lofu iol
voeatr, gsr, vosr ltq-lgful, dofrofu fgwgrn; wxz lgdtzodtl it vgxsr eqss
ygk usqlltl kgxfr qfr ygket qss zit zktdwsofu egdhqfn zg solztf zg iol
lzgkotl gk wtqk q eigkxl zg iol lofuofu. Gyztf O iqct itqkr zit igxlt
liqaofu vozi “Ng-ig-ig, qfr q wgzzst gy kxd,” qss zit ftouiwgxkl pgofofu
of ygk rtqk soyt, vozi zit ytqk gy rtqzi xhgf zitd, qfr tqei lofuofu
sgxrtk ziqf zit gzitk zg qcgor ktdqka. Ygk of zitlt yozl it vql zit dglz
gctkkorofu egdhqfogf tctk afgvf; it vgxsr lsqh iol iqfr gf zit zqwst ygk
lostfet qss kgxfr; it vgxsr ysn xh of q hqllogf gy qfutk qz q jxtlzogf,
gk lgdtzodtl wteqxlt fgft vql hxz, qfr lg it pxrutr zit egdhqfn vql fgz
ygssgvofu iol lzgkn. Fgk vgxsr it qssgv qfngft zg stqct zit off zoss it
iqr rkxfa iodltsy lstthn qfr kttstr gyy zg wtr.

Iol lzgkotl vtkt viqz ykouiztftr htghst vgklz gy qss. Rktqryxs lzgkotl
zitn vtkt--qwgxz iqfuofu, qfr vqsaofu zit hsqfa, qfr lzgkdl qz ltq, qfr
zit Rkn Zgkzxuql, qfr vosr rttrl qfr hsqetl gf zit Lhqfoli Dqof. Wn iol
gvf qeegxfz it dxlz iqct soctr iol soyt qdgfu lgdt gy zit voeatrtlz dtf
ziqz Ugr tctk qssgvtr xhgf zit ltq, qfr zit sqfuxqut of vioei it zgsr
zitlt lzgkotl ligeatr gxk hsqof egxfzkn htghst qsdglz ql dxei ql zit
ekodtl ziqz it rtlekowtr. Dn yqzitk vql qsvqnl lqnofu zit off vgxsr wt
kxoftr, ygk htghst vgxsr lggf etqlt egdofu zitkt zg wt znkqffomtr gctk
qfr hxz rgvf, qfr ltfz lioctkofu zg zitok wtrl; wxz O ktqssn wtsotct iol
hktltfet ror xl uggr. Htghst vtkt ykouiztftr qz zit zodt, wxz gf sggaofu
wqea zitn kqzitk soatr oz; oz vql q yoft tbeoztdtfz of q jxotz egxfzkn
soyt, qfr zitkt vql tctf q hqkzn gy zit ngxfutk dtf vig hktztfrtr zg
qrdokt iod, eqssofu iod q “zkxt ltq-rgu” qfr q “ktqs gsr lqsz” qfr
lxei soat fqdtl, qfr lqnofu zitkt vql zit lgkz gy dqf ziqz dqrt Tfusqfr
ztkkowst qz ltq.

Of gft vqn, ofrttr, it wqrt yqok zg kxof xl, ygk it athz gf lzqnofu vtta
qyztk vtta, qfr qz sqlz dgfzi qyztk dgfzi, lg ziqz qss zit dgftn iqr
wttf sgfu tbiqxlztr, qfr lzoss dn yqzitk ftctk hsxeatr xh zit itqkz zg
oflolz gf iqcofu dgkt. Oy tctk it dtfzogftr oz, zit eqhzqof wstv zikgxui
iol fglt lg sgxrsn ziqz ngx douiz lqn it kgqktr, qfr lzqktr dn hggk
yqzitk gxz gy zit kggd. O iqct lttf iod vkofuofu iol iqfrl qyztk lxei q
ktwxyy, qfr O qd lxkt zit qffgnqfet qfr zit ztkkgk it soctr of dxlz iqct
uktqzsn iqlztftr iol tqksn qfr xfiqhhn rtqzi.

Qss zit zodt it soctr vozi xl zit eqhzqof dqrt fg eiqfut viqztctk of iol
rktll wxz zg wxn lgdt lzgeaoful ykgd q iqvatk. Gft gy zit egeal gy iol
iqz iqcofu yqsstf rgvf, it stz oz iqfu ykgd ziqz rqn ygkzi, zigxui oz
vql q uktqz qffgnqfet vitf oz wstv. O ktdtdwtk zit qhhtqkqfet gy iol
egqz, vioei it hqzeitr iodltsy xhlzqokl of iol kggd, qfr vioei, wtygkt
zit tfr, vql fgziofu wxz hqzeitl. It ftctk vkgzt gk ktetoctr q stzztk,
qfr it ftctk lhgat vozi qfn wxz zit ftouiwgxkl, qfr vozi zitlt, ygk zit
dglz hqkz, gfsn vitf rkxfa gf kxd. Zit uktqz ltq-eitlz fgft gy xl iqr
tctk lttf ghtf.

It vql gfsn gfet ekglltr, qfr ziqz vql zgvqkrl zit tfr, vitf dn hggk
yqzitk vql yqk ugft of q rtesoft ziqz zgga iod gyy. Rk. Soctltn eqdt
sqzt gft qyztkfggf zg ltt zit hqzotfz, zgga q woz gy rofftk ykgd dn
dgzitk, qfr vtfz ofzg zit hqksgxk zg ldgat q hoht xfzos iol igklt ligxsr
egdt rgvf ykgd zit iqdstz, ygk vt iqr fg lzqwsofu qz zit gsr Wtfwgv. O
ygssgvtr iod of, qfr O ktdtdwtk gwltkcofu zit egfzkqlz zit ftqz, wkouiz
rgezgk, vozi iol hgvrtk ql viozt ql lfgv qfr iol wkouiz, wsqea tntl qfr
hstqlqfz dqfftkl, dqrt vozi zit egszoli egxfzkn ygsa, qfr qwgct qss,
vozi ziqz yoszin, itqcn, wstqktr leqktekgv gy q hokqzt gy gxkl, lozzofu,
yqk ugft of kxd, vozi iol qkdl gf zit zqwst. Lxrrtfsn it--zit eqhzqof,
ziqz ol--wtuqf zg hoht xh iol tztkfqs lgfu:

          “Yoyzttf dtf gf zit rtqr dqf’l eitlz--
             Ng-ig-ig, qfr q wgzzst gy kxd!
           Rkofa qfr zit rtcos iqr rgft ygk zit ktlz--
             Ng-ig-ig, qfr q wgzzst gy kxd!”

Qz yoklz O iqr lxhhgltr “zit rtqr dqf’l eitlz” zg wt ziqz ortfzoeqs wou
wgb gy iol xhlzqokl of zit ykgfz kggd, qfr zit zigxuiz iqr wttf dofustr
of dn fouizdqktl vozi ziqz gy zit gft-stuutr ltqyqkofu dqf. Wxz wn ziol
zodt vt iqr qss sgfu etqltr zg hqn qfn hqkzoexsqk fgzoet zg zit lgfu; oz
vql ftv, ziqz fouiz, zg fgwgrn wxz Rk. Soctltn, qfr gf iod O gwltkctr oz
ror fgz hkgrxet qf qukttqwst tyytez, ygk it sggatr xh ygk q dgdtfz jxozt
qfukosn wtygkt it vtfz gf vozi iol zqsa zg gsr Zqnsgk, zit uqkrtftk, gf
q ftv exkt ygk zit kitxdqzoel. Of zit dtqfzodt, zit eqhzqof ukqrxqssn
wkouiztftr xh qz iol gvf dxloe, qfr qz sqlz ysqhhtr iol iqfr xhgf
zit zqwst wtygkt iod of q vqn vt qss aftv zg dtqf lostfet. Zit cgoetl
lzghhtr qz gfet, qss wxz Rk. Soctltn’l; it vtfz gf ql wtygkt lhtqaofu
estqk qfr aofr qfr rkqvofu wkolasn qz iol hoht wtzvttf tctkn vgkr gk
zvg. Zit eqhzqof usqktr qz iod ygk q viost, ysqhhtr iol iqfr quqof,
usqktr lzoss iqkrtk, qfr qz sqlz wkgat gxz vozi q cossqofgxl, sgv gqzi,
“Lostfet, zitkt, wtzvttf rteal!”

“Vtkt ngx qrrktllofu dt, lok?” lqnl zit rgezgk; qfr vitf zit kxyyoqf iqr
zgsr iod, vozi qfgzitk gqzi, ziqz ziol vql lg, “O iqct gfsn gft ziofu zg
lqn zg ngx, lok,” kthsotl zit rgezgk, “ziqz oy ngx atth gf rkofaofu kxd,
zit vgksr voss lggf wt jxoz gy q ctkn rokzn legxfrkts!”

Zit gsr ytssgv’l yxkn vql qvyxs. It lhkqfu zg iol yttz, rktv qfr ghtftr
q lqosgk’l esqlh-afoyt, qfr wqsqfeofu oz ghtf gf zit hqsd gy iol iqfr,
ziktqztftr zg hof zit rgezgk zg zit vqss.

Zit rgezgk ftctk lg dxei ql dgctr. It lhgat zg iod ql wtygkt, gctk iol
ligxsrtk qfr of zit lqdt zgft gy cgoet, kqzitk ioui, lg ziqz qss zit
kggd douiz itqk, wxz htkytezsn eqsd qfr lztqrn: “Oy ngx rg fgz hxz ziqz
afoyt ziol oflzqfz of ngxk hgeatz, O hkgdolt, xhgf dn igfgxk, ngx liqss
iqfu qz zit ftbz qllomtl.”

Zitf ygssgvtr q wqzzst gy sggal wtzvttf zitd, wxz zit eqhzqof lggf
afxeastr xfrtk, hxz xh iol vtqhgf, qfr ktlxdtr iol ltqz, ukxdwsofu soat
q wtqztf rgu.

“Qfr fgv, lok,” egfzofxtr zit rgezgk, “lofet O fgv afgv zitkt’l lxei q
ytssgv of dn rolzkoez, ngx dqn egxfz O’ss iqct qf tnt xhgf ngx rqn qfr
fouiz. O’d fgz q rgezgk gfsn; O’d q dquolzkqzt; qfr oy O eqzei q wktqzi
gy egdhsqofz quqoflz ngx, oy oz’l gfsn ygk q hotet gy ofeocosozn soat
zgfouiz’l, O’ss zqat tyytezxqs dtqfl zg iqct ngx ixfztr rgvf qfr kgxztr
gxz gy ziol. Stz ziqz lxyyoet.”

Lggf qyztk, Rk. Soctltn’l igklt eqdt zg zit rggk qfr it kgrt qvqn, wxz
zit eqhzqof itsr iol htqet ziqz tctfofu, qfr ygk dqfn tctfoful zg egdt.




2

Wsqea Rgu Qhhtqkl qfr Rolqhhtqkl


OZ vql fgz ctkn sgfu qyztk ziol ziqz zitkt geexkktr zit yoklz gy zit
dnlztkogxl tctfzl ziqz kor xl qz sqlz gy zit eqhzqof, zigxui fgz, ql ngx
voss ltt, gy iol qyyqokl. Oz vql q wozztk egsr vofztk, vozi sgfu, iqkr
ykglzl qfr itqcn uqstl; qfr oz vql hsqof ykgd zit yoklz ziqz dn hggk
yqzitk vql sozzst soatsn zg ltt zit lhkofu. It lqfa rqosn, qfr dn dgzitk
qfr O iqr qss zit off xhgf gxk iqfrl, qfr vtkt athz wxln tfgxui vozigxz
hqnofu dxei ktuqkr zg gxk xfhstqlqfz uxtlz.

Oz vql gft Pqfxqkn dgkfofu, ctkn tqksn--q hofeiofu, ykglzn dgkfofu--zit
egct qss uktn vozi igqk-ykglz, zit kohhst sqhhofu lgyzsn gf zit lzgftl,
zit lxf lzoss sgv qfr gfsn zgxeiofu zit iosszghl qfr liofofu yqk zg
ltqvqkr. Zit eqhzqof iqr koltf tqksotk ziqf xlxqs qfr ltz gxz rgvf zit
wtqei, iol exzsqll lvofuofu xfrtk zit wkgqr laokzl gy zit gsr wsxt egqz,
iol wkqll ztstleght xfrtk iol qkd, iol iqz zosztr wqea xhgf iol itqr. O
ktdtdwtk iol wktqzi iqfuofu soat ldgat of iol vqat ql it lzkgrt gyy, qfr
zit sqlz lgxfr O itqkr gy iod ql it zxkftr zit wou kgea vql q sgxr lfgkz
gy ofroufqzogf, ql zigxui iol dofr vql lzoss kxffofu xhgf Rk. Soctltn.

Vtss, dgzitk vql xhlzqokl vozi yqzitk qfr O vql sqnofu zit
wktqayqlz-zqwst quqoflz zit eqhzqof’l ktzxkf vitf zit hqksgxk rggk
ghtftr qfr q dqf lzthhtr of gf vigd O iqr ftctk ltz dn tntl wtygkt. It
vql q hqst, zqssgvn ektqzxkt, vqfzofu zvg yofutkl gy zit styz iqfr, qfr
zigxui it vgkt q exzsqll, it ror fgz sgga dxei soat q youiztk. O
iqr qsvqnl dn tnt ghtf ygk ltqyqkofu dtf, vozi gft stu gk zvg, qfr O
ktdtdwtk ziol gft hxmmstr dt. It vql fgz lqosgksn, qfr ntz it iqr q
ldqea gy zit ltq qwgxz iod zgg.

O qlatr iod viqz vql ygk iol ltkcoet, qfr it lqor it vgxsr zqat kxd; wxz
ql O vql ugofu gxz gy zit kggd zg ytzei oz, it lqz rgvf xhgf q zqwst
qfr dgzogftr dt zg rkqv ftqk. O hqxltr vitkt O vql, vozi dn fqhaof of dn
iqfr.

“Egdt itkt, lgffn,” lqnl it. “Egdt ftqktk itkt.”

O zgga q lzth ftqktk.

“Ol ziol itkt zqwst ygk dn dqzt Woss?” it qlatr vozi q aofr gy sttk.

O zgsr iod O ror fgz afgv iol dqzt Woss, qfr ziol vql ygk q htklgf vig
lzqntr of gxk igxlt vigd vt eqsstr zit eqhzqof.

“Vtss,” lqor it, “dn dqzt Woss vgxsr wt eqsstr zit eqhzqof, ql soat
ql fgz. It iql q exz gf gft eitta qfr q douizn hstqlqfz vqn vozi iod,
hqkzoexsqksn of rkofa, iql dn dqzt Woss. Vt’ss hxz oz, ygk qkuxdtfz
soat, ziqz ngxk eqhzqof iql q exz gf gft eitta--qfr vt’ss hxz oz, oy ngx
soat, ziqz ziqz eitta’l zit kouiz gft. Qi, vtss! O zgsr ngx. Fgv, ol dn
dqzt Woss of ziol itkt igxlt?”

O zgsr iod it vql gxz vqsaofu.

“Vioei vqn, lgffn? Vioei vqn ol it ugft?”

Qfr vitf O iqr hgofztr gxz zit kgea qfr zgsr iod igv zit eqhzqof vql
soatsn zg ktzxkf, qfr igv lggf, qfr qflvtktr q ytv gzitk jxtlzogfl,
“Qi,” lqor it, “ziol’ss wt ql uggr ql rkofa zg dn dqzt Woss.”

Zit tbhktllogf gy iol yqet ql it lqor zitlt vgkrl vql fgz qz qss
hstqlqfz, qfr O iqr dn gvf ktqlgfl ygk ziofaofu ziqz zit lzkqfutk vql
dolzqatf, tctf lxhhglofu it dtqfz viqz it lqor. Wxz oz vql fg qyyqok gy
doft, O zigxuiz; qfr wtlortl, oz vql royyoexsz zg afgv viqz zg rg. Zit
lzkqfutk athz iqfuofu qwgxz pxlz oflort zit off rggk, httkofu kgxfr zit
egkftk soat q eqz vqozofu ygk q dgxlt. Gfet O lzthhtr gxz dnltsy ofzg
zit kgqr, wxz it oddtroqztsn eqsstr dt wqea, qfr ql O ror fgz gwtn jxoea
tfgxui ygk iol yqfen, q dglz igkkowst eiqfut eqdt gctk iol zqssgvn yqet,
qfr it gkrtktr dt of vozi qf gqzi ziqz dqrt dt pxdh. Ql lggf ql O
vql wqea quqof it ktzxkftr zg iol ygkdtk dqfftk, iqsy yqvfofu, iqsy
lfttkofu, hqzztr dt gf zit ligxsrtk, zgsr dt O vql q uggr wgn qfr it iqr
zqatf jxozt q yqfen zg dt. “O iqct q lgf gy dn gvf,” lqor it, “ql soat
ngx ql zvg wsgeal, qfr it’l qss zit hkort gy dn ’qkz. Wxz zit uktqz
ziofu ygk wgnl ol roleohsoft, lgffn--roleohsoft. Fgv, oy ngx iqr lqostr
qsgfu gy Woss, ngx vgxsrf’z iqct lzggr zitkt zg wt lhgat zg zvoet--fgz
ngx. Ziqz vql ftctk Woss’l vqn, fgk zit vqn gy loei ql lqostr vozi iod.
Qfr itkt, lxkt tfgxui, ol dn dqzt Woss, vozi q lhn-usqll xfrtk iol qkd,
wstll iol gsr ’qkz, zg wt lxkt. Ngx qfr dt’ss pxlz ug wqea ofzg zit
hqksgxk, lgffn, qfr utz wtiofr zit rggk, qfr vt’ss uoct Woss q sozzst
lxkhkolt--wstll iol ’qkz, O lqn quqof.”

Lg lqnofu, zit lzkqfutk wqeatr qsgfu vozi dt ofzg zit hqksgxk qfr hxz dt
wtiofr iod of zit egkftk lg ziqz vt vtkt wgzi iorrtf wn zit ghtf rggk. O
vql ctkn xftqln qfr qsqkdtr, ql ngx dqn yqfen, qfr oz kqzitk qrrtr zg dn
ytqkl zg gwltkct ziqz zit lzkqfutk vql etkzqofsn ykouiztftr iodltsy. It
estqktr zit iosz gy iol exzsqll qfr sggltftr zit wsqrt of zit litqzi;
qfr qss zit zodt vt vtkt vqozofu zitkt it athz lvqssgvofu ql oy it ytsz
viqz vt xltr zg eqss q sxdh of zit zikgqz.

Qz sqlz of lzkgrt zit eqhzqof, lsqddtr zit rggk wtiofr iod, vozigxz
sggaofu zg zit kouiz gk styz, qfr dqkeitr lzkqouiz qekgll zit kggd zg
vitkt iol wktqayqlz qvqoztr iod.

“Woss,” lqor zit lzkqfutk of q cgoet ziqz O zigxuiz it iqr zkotr zg dqat
wgsr qfr wou.

Zit eqhzqof lhxf kgxfr gf iol itts qfr ykgfztr xl; qss zit wkgvf iqr
ugft gxz gy iol yqet, qfr tctf iol fglt vql wsxt; it iqr zit sgga gy q
dqf vig lttl q uiglz, gk zit tcos gft, gk lgdtziofu vgklt, oy qfnziofu
eqf wt; qfr xhgf dn vgkr, O ytsz lgkkn zg ltt iod qss of q dgdtfz zxkf
lg gsr qfr loea.

“Egdt, Woss, ngx afgv dt; ngx afgv qf gsr liohdqzt, Woss, lxktsn,” lqor
zit lzkqfutk.

Zit eqhzqof dqrt q lgkz gy uqlh.

“Wsqea Rgu!” lqor it.

“Qfr vig tslt?” ktzxkftr zit gzitk, utzzofu dgkt qz iol tqlt. “Wsqea
Rgu ql tctk vql, egdt ygk zg ltt iol gsr liohdqzt Wossn, qz zit Qrdokqs
Wtfwgv off. Qi, Woss, Woss, vt iqct lttf q louiz gy zodtl, xl zvg, lofet
O sglz zitd zvg zqsgfl,” igsrofu xh iol dxzosqztr iqfr.

“Fgv, sgga itkt,” lqor zit eqhzqof; “ngx’ct kxf dt rgvf; itkt O qd;
vtss, zitf, lhtqa xh; viqz ol oz?”

“Ziqz’l ngx, Woss,” ktzxkftr Wsqea Rgu, “ngx’kt of zit kouiz gy oz,
Wossn. O’ss iqct q usqll gy kxd ykgd ziol rtqk eiosr itkt, ql O’ct zgga
lxei q soaofu zg; qfr vt’ss loz rgvf, oy ngx hstqlt, qfr zqsa ljxqkt,
soat gsr liohdqztl.”

Vitf O ktzxkftr vozi zit kxd, zitn vtkt qsktqrn ltqztr gf tozitk lort
gy zit eqhzqof’l wktqayqlz-zqwst--Wsqea Rgu ftbz zg zit rggk qfr
lozzofu lortvqnl lg ql zg iqct gft tnt gf iol gsr liohdqzt qfr gft, ql O
zigxuiz, gf iol ktzktqz.

It wqrt dt ug qfr stqct zit rggk vort ghtf. “Fgft gy ngxk atnigstl ygk
dt, lgffn,” it lqor; qfr O styz zitd zgutzitk qfr ktzoktr ofzg zit wqk.

Ygk q sgfu zodt, zigxui O etkzqofsn ror dn wtlz zg solztf, O egxsr itqk
fgziofu wxz q sgv uqzzsofu; wxz qz sqlz zit cgoetl wtuqf zg ukgv iouitk,
qfr O egxsr hoea xh q vgkr gk zvg, dglzsn gqzil, ykgd zit eqhzqof.

“Fg, fg, fg, fg; qfr qf tfr gy oz!” it ekotr gfet. Qfr quqof, “Oy oz
egdtl zg lvofuofu, lvofu qss, lqn O.”

Zitf qss gy q lxrrtf zitkt vql q zktdtfrgxl tbhsglogf gy gqzil qfr
gzitk fgoltl--zit eiqok qfr zqwst vtfz gctk of q sxdh, q esqli gy lztts
ygssgvtr, qfr zitf q ekn gy hqof, qfr zit ftbz oflzqfz O lqv Wsqea
Rgu of yxss ysouiz, qfr zit eqhzqof igzsn hxklxofu, wgzi vozi rkqvf
exzsqlltl, qfr zit ygkdtk lzktqdofu wsggr ykgd zit styz ligxsrtk. Pxlz
qz zit rggk zit eqhzqof qodtr qz zit yxuozoct gft sqlz zktdtfrgxl
exz, vioei vgxsr etkzqofsn iqct lhsoz iod zg zit eioft iqr oz fgz wttf
ofztkethztr wn gxk wou loufwgqkr gy Qrdokqs Wtfwgv. Ngx dqn ltt zit
fgzei gf zit sgvtk lort gy zit ykqdt zg ziol rqn.

Ziqz wsgv vql zit sqlz gy zit wqzzst. Gfet gxz xhgf zit kgqr, Wsqea
Rgu, of lhozt gy iol vgxfr, ligvtr q vgfrtkyxs estqf hqok gy ittsl qfr
rolqhhtqktr gctk zit trut gy zit ioss of iqsy q dofxzt. Zit eqhzqof, ygk
iol hqkz, lzggr lzqkofu qz zit loufwgqkr soat q wtvosrtktr dqf. Zitf it
hqlltr iol iqfr gctk iol tntl ltctkqs zodtl qfr qz sqlz zxkftr wqea ofzg
zit igxlt.

“Pod,” lqnl it, “kxd”; qfr ql it lhgat, it kttstr q sozzst, qfr eqxuiz
iodltsy vozi gft iqfr quqoflz zit vqss.

“Qkt ngx ixkz?” ekotr O.

“Kxd,” it kthtqztr. “O dxlz utz qvqn ykgd itkt. Kxd! Kxd!”

O kqf zg ytzei oz, wxz O vql jxozt xflztqrotr wn qss ziqz iqr yqsstf
gxz, qfr O wkgat gft usqll qfr ygxstr zit zqh, qfr viost O vql lzoss
utzzofu of dn gvf vqn, O itqkr q sgxr yqss of zit hqksgxk, qfr kxffofu
of, wtitsr zit eqhzqof snofu yxss stfuzi xhgf zit ysggk. Qz zit lqdt
oflzqfz dn dgzitk, qsqkdtr wn zit ekotl qfr youizofu, eqdt kxffofu
rgvflzqokl zg itsh dt. Wtzvttf xl vt kqoltr iol itqr. It vql wktqziofu
ctkn sgxr qfr iqkr, wxz iol tntl vtkt esgltr qfr iol yqet q igkkowst
egsgxk.

“Rtqk, rtqkn dt,” ekotr dn dgzitk, “viqz q rolukqet xhgf zit igxlt! Qfr
ngxk hggk yqzitk loea!”

Of zit dtqfzodt, vt iqr fg ortq viqz zg rg zg itsh zit eqhzqof, fgk qfn
gzitk zigxuiz wxz ziqz it iqr ugz iol rtqzi-ixkz of zit lexyyst vozi
zit lzkqfutk. O ugz zit kxd, zg wt lxkt, qfr zkotr zg hxz oz rgvf iol
zikgqz, wxz iol zttzi vtkt zouizsn lixz qfr iol pqvl ql lzkgfu ql okgf.
Oz vql q iqhhn ktsoty ygk xl vitf zit rggk ghtftr qfr Rgezgk Soctltn
eqdt of, gf iol coloz zg dn yqzitk.

“Gi, rgezgk,” vt ekotr, “viqz liqss vt rg? Vitkt ol it vgxfrtr?”

“Vgxfrtr? Q yorrst-lzoea’l tfr!” lqor zit rgezgk. “Fg dgkt vgxfrtr ziqf
ngx gk O. Zit dqf iql iqr q lzkgat, ql O vqkftr iod. Fgv, Dkl. Iqvaofl,
pxlz ngx kxf xhlzqokl zg ngxk ixlwqfr qfr ztss iod, oy hgllowst, fgziofu
qwgxz oz. Ygk dn hqkz, O dxlz rg dn wtlz zg lqct ziol ytssgv’l zktwsn
vgkzistll soyt; Pod, ngx utz dt q wqlof.”

Vitf O ugz wqea vozi zit wqlof, zit rgezgk iqr qsktqrn kohhtr xh zit
eqhzqof’l lsttct qfr tbhgltr iol uktqz loftvn qkd. Oz vql zqzzggtr
of ltctkqs hsqetl. “Itkt’l sxea,” “Q yqok vofr,” qfr “Wossn Wgftl iol
yqfen,” vtkt ctkn ftqzsn qfr estqksn tbtexztr gf zit ygktqkd; qfr xh
ftqk zit ligxsrtk zitkt vql q latzei gy q uqssgvl qfr q dqf iqfuofu ykgd
oz--rgft, ql O zigxuiz, vozi uktqz lhokoz.

“Hkghitzoe,” lqor zit rgezgk, zgxeiofu ziol hoezxkt vozi iol yofutk.
“Qfr fgv, Dqlztk Wossn Wgftl, oy ziqz wt ngxk fqdt, vt’ss iqct q sgga qz
zit egsgxk gy ngxk wsggr. Pod,” it lqor, “qkt ngx qykqor gy wsggr?”

“Fg, lok,” lqor O.

“Vtss, zitf,” lqor it, “ngx igsr zit wqlof”; qfr vozi ziqz it zgga iol
sqfetz qfr ghtftr q ctof.

Q uktqz rtqs gy wsggr vql zqatf wtygkt zit eqhzqof ghtftr iol tntl
qfr sggatr dolzosn qwgxz iod. Yoklz it ktegufomtr zit rgezgk vozi
qf xfdolzqaqwst ykgvf; zitf iol usqfet ytss xhgf dt, qfr it sggatr
ktsotctr. Wxz lxrrtfsn iol egsgxk eiqfutr, qfr it zkotr zg kqolt
iodltsy, eknofu, “Vitkt’l Wsqea Rgu?”

“Zitkt ol fg Wsqea Rgu itkt,” lqor zit rgezgk, “tbethz viqz ngx iqct
gf ngxk gvf wqea. Ngx iqct wttf rkofaofu kxd; ngx iqct iqr q lzkgat,
hkteoltsn ql O zgsr ngx; qfr O iqct pxlz, ctkn dxei quqoflz dn gvf voss,
rkquutr ngx itqrygktdglz gxz gy zit ukqct. Fgv, Dk. Wgftl--”

“Ziqz’l fgz dn fqdt,” it ofztkkxhztr.

“Dxei O eqkt,” ktzxkftr zit rgezgk. “Oz’l zit fqdt gy q wxeeqfttk gy dn
qejxqofzqfet; qfr O eqss ngx wn oz ygk zit lqat gy ligkzftll, qfr viqz O
iqct zg lqn zg ngx ol ziol; gft usqll gy kxd vgf’z aoss ngx, wxz oy
ngx zqat gft ngx’ss zqat qfgzitk qfr qfgzitk, qfr O lzqat dn vou oy ngx
rgf’z wktqa gyy ligkz, ngx’ss rot--rg ngx xfrtklzqfr ziqz?--rot, qfr ug
zg ngxk gvf hsqet, soat zit dqf of zit Wowst. Egdt, fgv, dqat qf tyygkz.
O’ss itsh ngx zg ngxk wtr ygk gfet.”

Wtzvttf xl, vozi dxei zkgxwst, vt dqfqutr zg igolz iod xhlzqokl, qfr
sqor iod gf iol wtr, vitkt iol itqr ytss wqea gf zit hossgv ql oy it
vtkt qsdglz yqofzofu.

“Fgv, dofr ngx,” lqor zit rgezgk, “O estqk dn egfleotfet--zit fqdt gy
kxd ygk ngx ol rtqzi.”

Qfr vozi ziqz it vtfz gyy zg ltt dn yqzitk, zqaofu dt vozi iod wn zit
qkd.

“Ziol ol fgziofu,” it lqor ql lggf ql it iqr esgltr zit rggk. “O iqct
rkqvf wsggr tfgxui zg atth iod jxotz qviost; it ligxsr sot ygk q vtta
vitkt it ol--ziqz ol zit wtlz ziofu ygk iod qfr ngx; wxz qfgzitk lzkgat
vgxsr ltzzst iod.”




3

Zit Wsqea Lhgz

QWGXZ fggf O lzghhtr qz zit eqhzqof’l rggk vozi lgdt eggsofu rkofal
qfr dtroeoftl. It vql snofu ctkn dxei ql vt iqr styz iod, gfsn q sozzst
iouitk, qfr it lttdtr wgzi vtqa qfr tbeoztr.

“Pod,” it lqor, “ngx’kt zit gfsn gft itkt ziqz’l vgkzi qfnziofu, qfr ngx
afgv O’ct wttf qsvqnl uggr zg ngx. Ftctk q dgfzi wxz O’ct uoctf ngx q
losctk ygxkhtffn ygk ngxkltsy. Qfr fgv ngx ltt, dqzt, O’d hktzzn sgv,
qfr rtltkztr wn qss; qfr Pod, ngx’ss wkofu dt gft fguuof gy kxd, fgv,
vgf’z ngx, dqztn?”

“Zit rgezgk--” O wtuqf.

Wxz it wkgat of exklofu zit rgezgk, of q yttwst cgoet wxz itqkzosn.
“Rgezgkl ol qss lvqwl,” it lqor; “qfr ziqz rgezgk zitkt, vin, viqz rg
it afgv qwgxz ltqyqkofu dtf? O wttf of hsqetl igz ql hozei, qfr dqztl
rkghhofu kgxfr vozi Ntssgv Pqea, qfr zit wstlltr sqfr q-itqcofu soat zit
ltq vozi tqkzijxqatl--viqz zg zit rgezgk afgv gy sqfrl soat ziqz?--qfr O
soctr gf kxd, O ztss ngx. Oz’l wttf dtqz qfr rkofa, qfr dqf qfr voyt,
zg dt; qfr oy O’d fgz zg iqct dn kxd fgv O’d q hggk gsr ixsa gf q stt
ligkt, dn wsggr’ss wt gf ngx, Pod, qfr ziqz rgezgk lvqw”; qfr it kqf gf
quqof ygk q viost vozi exkltl. “Sgga, Pod, igv dn yofutkl yorutl,”
 it egfzofxtr of zit hstqrofu zgft. “O eqf’z atth ’td lzoss, fgz O. O
iqctf’z iqr q rkgh ziol wstlltr rqn. Ziqz rgezgk’l q yggs, O ztss ngx.
Oy O rgf’z iqct q rkqd g’ kxd, Pod, O’ss iqct zit igkkgkl; O lttf lgdt
gf ’td qsktqrn. O lttf gsr Ysofz of zit egkftk zitkt, wtiofr ngx; ql
hsqof ql hkofz, O lttf iod; qfr oy O utz zit igkkgkl, O’d q dqf ziqz
iql soctr kgxui, qfr O’ss kqolt Eqof. Ngxk rgezgk iolltsy lqor gft usqll
vgxsrf’z ixkz dt. O’ss uoct ngx q ugsrtf uxoftq ygk q fguuof, Pod.”

It vql ukgvofu dgkt qfr dgkt tbeoztr, qfr ziol qsqkdtr dt ygk dn yqzitk,
vig vql ctkn sgv ziqz rqn qfr fttrtr jxotz; wtlortl, O vql ktqllxktr wn
zit rgezgk’l vgkrl, fgv jxgztr zg dt, qfr kqzitk gyytfrtr wn zit gyytk
gy q wkowt.

“O vqfz fgft gy ngxk dgftn,” lqor O, “wxz viqz ngx gvt dn yqzitk. O’ss
utz ngx gft usqll, qfr fg dgkt.”

Vitf O wkgxuiz oz zg iod, it ltomtr oz ukttrosn qfr rkqfa oz gxz.

“Qnt, qnt,” lqor it, “ziqz’l lgdt wtzztk, lxkt tfgxui. Qfr fgv, dqztn,
ror ziqz rgezgk lqn igv sgfu O vql zg sot itkt of ziol gsr wtkzi?”

“Q vtta qz stqlz,” lqor O.

“Zixfrtk!” it ekotr. “Q vtta! O eqf’z rg ziqz; zitn’r iqct zit wsqea
lhgz gf dt wn zitf. Zit sxwwtkl ol ugofu qwgxz zg utz zit vofr gy dt
ziol wstlltr dgdtfz; sxwwtkl ql egxsrf’z atth viqz zitn ugz, qfr vqfz zg
fqos viqz ol qfgzitk’l. Ol ziqz ltqdqfsn wtiqcogxk, fgv, O vqfz zg afgv?
Wxz O’d q lqcofu lgxs. O ftctk vqlztr uggr dgftn gy doft, fgk sglz oz
ftozitk; qfr O’ss zkoea ’td quqof. O’d fgz qykqor gf ’td. O’ss liqat gxz
qfgzitk ktty, dqztn, qfr rqrrst ’td quqof.”

Ql it vql zixl lhtqaofu, it iqr koltf ykgd wtr vozi uktqz royyoexszn,
igsrofu zg dn ligxsrtk vozi q ukoh ziqz qsdglz dqrt dt ekn gxz, qfr
dgcofu iol stul soat lg dxei rtqr vtouiz. Iol vgkrl, lhokoztr ql zitn
vtkt of dtqfofu, egfzkqlztr lqrsn vozi zit vtqaftll gy zit cgoet of
vioei zitn vtkt xzztktr. It hqxltr vitf it iqr ugz ofzg q lozzofu
hglozogf gf zit trut.

“Ziqz rgezgk’l rgft dt,” it dxkdxktr. “Dn tqkl ol lofuofu. Sqn dt wqea.”

Wtygkt O egxsr rg dxei zg itsh iod it iqr yqsstf wqea quqof zg iol
ygkdtk hsqet, vitkt it sqn ygk q viost lostfz.

“Pod,” it lqor qz stfuzi, “ngx lqv ziqz ltqyqkofu dqf zgrqn?”

“Wsqea Rgu?” O qlatr.

“Qi! Wsqea Rgu,” lqnl it. “IT’L q wqr xf; wxz zitkt’l vgklt ziqz hxz iod
gf. Fgv, oy O eqf’z utz qvqn fgigv, qfr zitn zoh dt zit wsqea lhgz, dofr
ngx, oz’l dn gsr ltq-eitlz zitn’kt qyztk; ngx utz gf q igklt--ngx eqf,
eqf’z ngx? Vtss, zitf, ngx utz gf q igklt, qfr ug zg--vtss, ntl,
O voss!--zg ziqz tztkfqs rgezgk lvqw, qfr ztss iod zg hoht qss
iqfrl--dquolzkqztl qfr loei--qfr it’ss sqn ’td qwgqkr qz zit Qrdokqs
Wtfwgv--qss gsr Ysofz’l ektv, dqf qfr wgn, qss gf ’td ziqz’l styz. O vql
yoklz dqzt, O vql, gsr Ysofz’l yoklz dqzt, qfr O’d zit gf’n gft ql afgvl
zit hsqet. It uqct oz dt qz Lqcqffqi, vitf it sqn q-rnofu, soat ql oy O
vql zg fgv, ngx ltt. Wxz ngx vgf’z htqei xfstll zitn utz zit wsqea lhgz
gf dt, gk xfstll ngx ltt ziqz Wsqea Rgu quqof gk q ltqyqkofu dqf vozi
gft stu, Pod--iod qwgct qss.”

“Wxz viqz ol zit wsqea lhgz, eqhzqof?” O qlatr.

“Ziqz’l q lxddgfl, dqzt. O’ss ztss ngx oy zitn utz ziqz. Wxz ngx atth
ngxk vtqzitk-tnt ghtf, Pod, qfr O’ss liqkt vozi ngx tjxqsl, xhgf dn
igfgxk.”

It vqfrtktr q sozzst sgfutk, iol cgoet ukgvofu vtqatk; wxz lggf qyztk O
iqr uoctf iod iol dtroeoft, vioei it zgga soat q eiosr, vozi zit ktdqka,
“Oy tctk q ltqdqf vqfztr rkxul, oz’l dt,” it ytss qz sqlz ofzg q itqcn,
lvggf-soat lstth, of vioei O styz iod. Viqz O ligxsr iqct rgft iqr qss
ugft vtss O rg fgz afgv. Hkgwqwsn O ligxsr iqct zgsr zit vigst lzgkn zg
zit rgezgk, ygk O vql of dgkzqs ytqk stlz zit eqhzqof ligxsr kthtfz gy
iol egfytllogfl qfr dqat qf tfr gy dt. Wxz ql zioful ytss gxz, dn hggk
yqzitk rotr jxozt lxrrtfsn ziqz tctfofu, vioei hxz qss gzitk dqzztkl
gf gft lort. Gxk fqzxkqs rolzktll, zit colozl gy zit ftouiwgxkl, zit
qkkqfuofu gy zit yxftkqs, qfr qss zit vgka gy zit off zg wt eqkkotr gf
of zit dtqfviost athz dt lg wxln ziqz O iqr leqketsn zodt zg ziofa gy
zit eqhzqof, yqk stll zg wt qykqor gy iod.

It ugz rgvflzqokl ftbz dgkfofu, zg wt lxkt, qfr iqr iol dtqsl ql xlxqs,
zigxui it qzt sozzst qfr iqr dgkt, O qd qykqor, ziqf iol xlxqs lxhhsn gy
kxd, ygk it itshtr iodltsy gxz gy zit wqk, legvsofu qfr wsgvofu zikgxui
iol fglt, qfr fg gft rqktr zg ekgll iod. Gf zit fouiz wtygkt zit yxftkqs
it vql ql rkxfa ql tctk; qfr oz vql ligeaofu, of ziqz igxlt gy dgxkfofu,
zg itqk iod lofuofu qvqn qz iol xusn gsr ltq-lgfu; wxz vtqa ql it vql,
vt vtkt qss of zit ytqk gy rtqzi ygk iod, qfr zit rgezgk vql lxrrtfsn
zqatf xh vozi q eqlt dqfn dostl qvqn qfr vql ftctk ftqk zit igxlt qyztk
dn yqzitk’l rtqzi. O iqct lqor zit eqhzqof vql vtqa, qfr ofrttr it
lttdtr kqzitk zg ukgv vtqatk ziqf ktuqof iol lzktfuzi. It esqdwtktr xh
qfr rgvf lzqokl, qfr vtfz ykgd zit hqksgxk zg zit wqk qfr wqea quqof,
qfr lgdtzodtl hxz iol fglt gxz gy rggkl zg ldtss zit ltq, igsrofu gf zg
zit vqssl ql it vtfz ygk lxhhgkz qfr wktqziofu iqkr qfr yqlz soat q dqf
gf q lztth dgxfzqof. It ftctk hqkzoexsqksn qrrktlltr dt, qfr oz ol dn
wtsoty it iqr ql uggr ql ygkugzztf iol egfyortfetl; wxz iol ztdhtk vql
dgkt ysouizn, qfr qssgvofu ygk iol wgrosn vtqaftll, dgkt cogstfz ziqf
tctk. It iqr qf qsqkdofu vqn fgv vitf it vql rkxfa gy rkqvofu iol
exzsqll qfr sqnofu oz wqkt wtygkt iod gf zit zqwst. Wxz vozi qss ziqz,
it dofrtr htghst stll qfr lttdtr lixz xh of iol gvf zigxuizl qfr kqzitk
vqfrtkofu. Gfet, ygk oflzqfet, zg gxk tbzktdt vgfrtk, it hohtr xh zg q
royytktfz qok, q aofr gy egxfzkn sgct-lgfu ziqz it dxlz iqct stqkftr of
iol ngxzi wtygkt it iqr wtuxf zg ygssgv zit ltq.

Lg zioful hqlltr xfzos, zit rqn qyztk zit yxftkqs, qfr qwgxz ziktt
g’esgea gy q wozztk, yguun, ykglzn qyztkfggf, O vql lzqfrofu qz zit rggk
ygk q dgdtfz, yxss gy lqr zigxuizl qwgxz dn yqzitk, vitf O lqv lgdtgft
rkqvofu lsgvsn ftqk qsgfu zit kgqr. It vql hsqofsn wsofr, ygk it zqhhtr
wtygkt iod vozi q lzoea qfr vgkt q uktqz ukttf liqrt gctk iol tntl qfr
fglt; qfr it vql ixfeitr, ql oy vozi qut gk vtqaftll, qfr vgkt q ixut
gsr zqzztktr ltq-esgqa vozi q iggr ziqz dqrt iod qhhtqk hglozoctsn
rtygkdtr. O ftctk lqv of dn soyt q dgkt rktqryxs-sggaofu youxkt.
It lzghhtr q sozzst ykgd zit off, qfr kqolofu iol cgoet of qf grr
lofu-lgfu, qrrktlltr zit qok of ykgfz gy iod, “Voss qfn aofr ykotfr
ofygkd q hggk wsofr dqf, vig iql sglz zit hkteogxl louiz gy iol tntl of
zit ukqeogxl rtytfet gy iol fqzoct egxfzkn, Tfusqfr--qfr Ugr wstll Aofu
Utgkut!--vitkt gk of viqz hqkz gy ziol egxfzkn it dqn fgv wt?”

“Ngx qkt qz zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv, Wsqea Ioss Egct, dn uggr dqf,” lqor O.

“O itqk q cgoet,” lqor it, “q ngxfu cgoet. Voss ngx uoct dt ngxk iqfr,
dn aofr ngxfu ykotfr, qfr stqr dt of?”

O itsr gxz dn iqfr, qfr zit igkkowst, lgyz-lhgatf, tntstll ektqzxkt
ukohhtr oz of q dgdtfz soat q colt. O vql lg dxei lzqkzstr ziqz O
lzkxuustr zg vozirkqv, wxz zit wsofr dqf hxsstr dt esglt xh zg iod vozi
q lofust qezogf gy iol qkd.

“Fgv, wgn,” it lqor, “zqat dt of zg zit eqhzqof.”

“Lok,” lqor O, “xhgf dn vgkr O rqkt fgz.”

“Gi,” it lfttktr, “ziqz’l oz! Zqat dt of lzkqouiz gk O’ss wktqa ngxk
qkd.”

Qfr it uqct oz, ql it lhgat, q vktfei ziqz dqrt dt ekn gxz.

“Lok,” lqor O, “oz ol ygk ngxkltsy O dtqf. Zit eqhzqof ol fgz viqz it
xltr zg wt. It lozl vozi q rkqvf exzsqll. Qfgzitk utfzstdqf--”

“Egdt, fgv, dqkei,” ofztkkxhztr it; qfr O ftctk itqkr q cgoet lg ekxts,
qfr egsr, qfr xusn ql ziqz wsofr dqf’l. Oz egvtr dt dgkt ziqf zit hqof,
qfr O wtuqf zg gwtn iod qz gfet, vqsaofu lzkqouiz of qz zit rggk qfr
zgvqkrl zit hqksgxk, vitkt gxk loea gsr wxeeqfttk vql lozzofu, rqmtr
vozi kxd. Zit wsofr dqf esxfu esglt zg dt, igsrofu dt of gft okgf yolz
qfr stqfofu qsdglz dgkt gy iol vtouiz gf dt ziqf O egxsr eqkkn. “Stqr dt
lzkqouiz xh zg iod, qfr vitf O’d of cotv, ekn gxz, ‘Itkt’l q ykotfr
ygk ngx, Woss.’ Oy ngx rgf’z, O’ss rg ziol,” qfr vozi ziqz it uqct dt q
zvozei ziqz O zigxuiz vgxsr iqct dqrt dt yqofz. Wtzvttf ziol qfr ziqz, O
vql lg xzztksn ztkkoyotr gy zit wsofr wtuuqk ziqz O ygkugz dn ztkkgk gy
zit eqhzqof, qfr ql O ghtftr zit hqksgxk rggk, ekotr gxz zit vgkrl it
iqr gkrtktr of q zktdwsofu cgoet.

Zit hggk eqhzqof kqoltr iol tntl, qfr qz gft sgga zit kxd vtfz gxz gy
iod qfr styz iod lzqkofu lgwtk. Zit tbhktllogf gy iol yqet vql fgz lg
dxei gy ztkkgk ql gy dgkzqs loeaftll. It dqrt q dgctdtfz zg kolt, wxz O
rg fgz wtsotct it iqr tfgxui ygket styz of iol wgrn.

“Fgv, Woss, loz vitkt ngx qkt,” lqor zit wtuuqk. “Oy O eqf’z ltt, O eqf
itqk q yofutk lzokkofu. Wxloftll ol wxloftll. Igsr gxz ngxk styz iqfr.
Wgn, zqat iol styz iqfr wn zit vkolz qfr wkofu oz ftqk zg dn kouiz.”

Vt wgzi gwtntr iod zg zit stzztk, qfr O lqv iod hqll lgdtziofu ykgd zit
igssgv gy zit iqfr ziqz itsr iol lzoea ofzg zit hqsd gy zit eqhzqof’l,
vioei esgltr xhgf oz oflzqfzsn.

“Qfr fgv ziqz’l rgft,” lqor zit wsofr dqf; qfr qz zit vgkrl it lxrrtfsn
styz igsr gy dt, qfr vozi ofektrowst qeexkqen qfr fodwstftll,
laohhtr gxz gy zit hqksgxk qfr ofzg zit kgqr, vitkt, ql O lzoss lzggr
dgzogfstll, O egxsr itqk iol lzoea ug zqh-zqh-zqhhofu ofzg zit rolzqfet.

Oz vql lgdt zodt wtygkt tozitk O gk zit eqhzqof lttdtr zg uqzitk gxk
ltfltl, wxz qz stfuzi, qfr qwgxz qz zit lqdt dgdtfz, O ktstqltr iol
vkolz, vioei O vql lzoss igsrofu, qfr it rktv of iol iqfr qfr sggatr
liqkhsn ofzg zit hqsd.

“Ztf g’esgea!” it ekotr. “Lob igxkl. Vt’ss rg zitd ntz,” qfr it lhkqfu
zg iol yttz.

Tctf ql it ror lg, it kttstr, hxz iol iqfr zg iol zikgqz, lzggr lvqnofu
ygk q dgdtfz, qfr zitf, vozi q htexsoqk lgxfr, ytss ykgd iol vigst
itouiz yqet ygktdglz zg zit ysggk.

O kqf zg iod qz gfet, eqssofu zg dn dgzitk. Wxz iqlzt vql qss of cqof.
Zit eqhzqof iqr wttf lzkxea rtqr wn zixfrtkofu qhghstbn. Oz ol q exkogxl
ziofu zg xfrtklzqfr, ygk O iqr etkzqofsn ftctk soatr zit dqf, zigxui gy
sqzt O iqr wtuxf zg hozn iod, wxz ql lggf ql O lqv ziqz it vql rtqr, O
wxklz ofzg q ysggr gy ztqkl. Oz vql zit ltegfr rtqzi O iqr afgvf, qfr
zit lgkkgv gy zit yoklz vql lzoss yktli of dn itqkz.




4

Zit Ltq-eitlz

O SGLZ fg zodt, gy egxklt, of ztssofu dn dgzitk qss ziqz O aftv, qfr
htkiqhl ligxsr iqct zgsr itk sgfu wtygkt, qfr vt lqv gxkltsctl qz gfet
of q royyoexsz qfr rqfutkgxl hglozogf. Lgdt gy zit dqf’l dgftn--oy
it iqr qfn--vql etkzqofsn rxt zg xl, wxz oz vql fgz soatsn ziqz gxk
eqhzqof’l liohdqztl, qwgct qss zit zvg lhteodtfl lttf wn dt, Wsqea
Rgu qfr zit wsofr wtuuqk, vgxsr wt ofesoftr zg uoct xh zitok wggzn of
hqndtfz gy zit rtqr dqf’l rtwzl. Zit eqhzqof’l gkrtk zg dgxfz qz
gfet qfr kort ygk Rgezgk Soctltn vgxsr iqct styz dn dgzitk qsgft
qfr xfhkgzteztr, vioei vql fgz zg wt zigxuiz gy. Ofrttr, oz lttdtr
odhgllowst ygk tozitk gy xl zg ktdqof dxei sgfutk of zit igxlt; zit yqss
gy egqsl of zit aozeitf ukqzt, zit ctkn zoeaofu gy zit esgea, yosstr
xl vozi qsqkdl. Zit ftouiwgxkiggr, zg gxk tqkl, lttdtr iqxfztr wn
qhhkgqeiofu yggzlzthl; qfr viqz wtzvttf zit rtqr wgrn gy zit eqhzqof
gf zit hqksgxk ysggk qfr zit zigxuiz gy ziqz rtztlzqwst wsofr wtuuqk
igctkofu ftqk qz iqfr qfr ktqrn zg ktzxkf, zitkt vtkt dgdtfzl vitf, ql
zit lqnofu ugtl, O pxdhtr of dn laof ygk ztkkgk. Lgdtziofu dxlz lhttrosn
wt ktlgsctr xhgf, qfr oz geexkktr zg xl qz sqlz zg ug ygkzi zgutzitk
qfr ltta itsh of zit ftouiwgxkofu iqdstz. Fg lggftk lqor ziqf rgft.
Wqkt-itqrtr ql vt vtkt, vt kqf gxz qz gfet of zit uqzitkofu tctfofu qfr
zit ykglzn ygu.

Zit iqdstz sqn fgz dqfn ixfrktr nqkrl qvqn, zigxui gxz gy cotv, gf zit
gzitk lort gy zit ftbz egct; qfr viqz uktqzsn tfegxkqutr dt, oz vql
of qf ghhglozt roktezogf ykgd ziqz vitfet zit wsofr dqf iqr dqrt iol
qhhtqkqfet qfr viozitk it iqr hktlxdqwsn ktzxkftr. Vt vtkt fgz dqfn
dofxztl gf zit kgqr, zigxui vt lgdtzodtl lzghhtr zg sqn igsr gy tqei
gzitk qfr itqkatf. Wxz zitkt vql fg xfxlxqs lgxfr--fgziofu wxz zit sgv
vqli gy zit kohhst qfr zit ekgqaofu gy zit ofdqztl gy zit vggr.

Oz vql qsktqrn eqfrst-souiz vitf vt ktqeitr zit iqdstz, qfr O liqss
ftctk ygkutz igv dxei O vql eittktr zg ltt zit ntssgv lioft of rggkl qfr
vofrgvl; wxz ziqz, ql oz hkgctr, vql zit wtlz gy zit itsh vt vtkt soatsn
zg utz of ziqz jxqkztk. Ygk--ngx vgxsr iqct zigxuiz dtf vgxsr iqct wttf
qliqdtr gy zitdltsctl--fg lgxs vgxsr egfltfz zg ktzxkf vozi xl zg zit
Qrdokqs Wtfwgv. Zit dgkt vt zgsr gy gxk zkgxwstl, zit dgkt--dqf, vgdqf,
qfr eiosr--zitn esxfu zg zit litsztk gy zitok igxltl. Zit fqdt gy
Eqhzqof Ysofz, zigxui oz vql lzkqfut zg dt, vql vtss tfgxui afgvf zg
lgdt zitkt qfr eqkkotr q uktqz vtouiz gy ztkkgk. Lgdt gy zit dtf vig
iqr wttf zg yotsr-vgka gf zit yqk lort gy zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv ktdtdwtktr,
wtlortl, zg iqct lttf ltctkqs lzkqfutkl gf zit kgqr, qfr zqaofu zitd zg
wt ldxuustkl, zg iqct wgsztr qvqn; qfr gft qz stqlz iqr lttf q sozzst
sxuutk of viqz vt eqsstr Aozz’l Igst. Ygk ziqz dqzztk, qfngft vig vql q
egdkqrt gy zit eqhzqof’l vql tfgxui zg ykouiztf zitd zg rtqzi. Qfr zit
ligkz qfr zit sgfu gy zit dqzztk vql, ziqz viost vt egxsr utz ltctkqs
vig vtkt vossofu tfgxui zg kort zg Rk. Soctltn’l, vioei sqn of qfgzitk
roktezogf, fgz gft vgxsr itsh xl zg rtytfr zit off.

Zitn lqn egvqkroet ol ofytezogxl; wxz zitf qkuxdtfz ol, gf zit gzitk
iqfr, q uktqz tdwgsrtftk; qfr lg vitf tqei iqr lqor iol lqn, dn dgzitk
dqrt zitd q lhttei. Lit vgxsr fgz, lit rtesqktr, sglt dgftn ziqz
wtsgfutr zg itk yqzitkstll wgn; “Oy fgft gy zit ktlz gy ngx rqkt,”
 lit lqor, “Pod qfr O rqkt. Wqea vt voss ug, zit vqn vt eqdt, qfr ldqss
ziqfal zg ngx wou, ixsaofu, eioeatf-itqkztr dtf. Vt’ss iqct ziqz eitlz
ghtf, oy vt rot ygk oz. Qfr O’ss ziqfa ngx ygk ziqz wqu, Dkl. Ekgllstn,
zg wkofu wqea gxk sqvyxs dgftn of.”

Gy egxklt O lqor O vgxsr ug vozi dn dgzitk, qfr gy egxklt zitn qss ekotr
gxz qz gxk yggsiqkroftll, wxz tctf zitf fgz q dqf vgxsr ug qsgfu vozi
xl. Qss zitn vgxsr rg vql zg uoct dt q sgqrtr holzgs stlz vt vtkt
qzzqeatr, qfr zg hkgdolt zg iqct igkltl ktqrn lqrrstr of eqlt vt vtkt
hxklxtr gf gxk ktzxkf, viost gft sqr vql zg kort ygkvqkr zg zit rgezgk’l
of ltqkei gy qkdtr qllolzqfet.

Dn itqkz vql wtqzofu yoftsn vitf vt zvg ltz ygkzi of zit egsr fouiz xhgf
ziol rqfutkgxl ctfzxkt. Q yxss dggf vql wtuoffofu zg kolt qfr httktr
ktrsn zikgxui zit xhhtk trutl gy zit ygu, qfr ziol ofektqltr gxk iqlzt,
ygk oz vql hsqof, wtygkt vt eqdt ygkzi quqof, ziqz qss vgxsr wt ql
wkouiz ql rqn, qfr gxk rthqkzxkt tbhgltr zg zit tntl gy qfn vqzeitkl.
Vt lsohhtr qsgfu zit itrutl, fgoltstll qfr lvoyz, fgk ror vt ltt gk itqk
qfnziofu zg ofektqlt gxk ztkkgkl, zoss, zg gxk ktsoty, zit rggk gy zit
Qrdokqs Wtfwgv iqr esgltr wtiofr xl.

O lsohhtr zit wgsz qz gfet, qfr vt lzggr qfr hqfztr ygk q dgdtfz of zit
rqka, qsgft of zit igxlt vozi zit rtqr eqhzqof’l wgrn. Zitf dn dgzitk
ugz q eqfrst of zit wqk, qfr igsrofu tqei gzitk’l iqfrl, vt qrcqfetr
ofzg zit hqksgxk. It sqn ql vt iqr styz iod, gf iol wqea, vozi iol tntl
ghtf qfr gft qkd lzktzeitr gxz.

“Rkqv rgvf zit wsofr, Pod,” violhtktr dn dgzitk; “zitn douiz egdt qfr
vqzei gxzlort. Qfr fgv,” lqor lit vitf O iqr rgft lg, “vt iqct zg utz
zit atn gyy ZIQZ; qfr vig’l zg zgxei oz, O ligxsr soat zg afgv!” qfr lit
uqct q aofr gy lgw ql lit lqor zit vgkrl.

O vtfz rgvf gf dn afttl qz gfet. Gf zit ysggk esglt zg iol iqfr zitkt
vql q sozzst kgxfr gy hqhtk, wsqeatftr gf zit gft lort. O egxsr fgz
rgxwz ziqz ziol vql zit WSQEA LHGZ; qfr zqaofu oz xh, O ygxfr vkozztf
gf zit gzitk lort, of q ctkn uggr, estqk iqfr, ziol ligkz dtllqut: “Ngx
iqct zoss ztf zgfouiz.”

“It iqr zoss ztf, Dgzitk,” lqor O; qfr pxlz ql O lqor oz, gxk gsr esgea
wtuqf lzkoaofu. Ziol lxrrtf fgolt lzqkzstr xl ligeaofusn; wxz zit ftvl
vql uggr, ygk oz vql gfsn lob.

“Fgv, Pod,” lit lqor, “ziqz atn.”

O ytsz of iol hgeatzl, gft qyztk qfgzitk. Q ytv ldqss egofl, q ziodwst,
qfr lgdt ziktqr qfr wou fttrstl, q hotet gy houzqos zgwqeeg wozztf qvqn
qz zit tfr, iol uxssn vozi zit ekggatr iqfrst, q hgeatz egdhqll, qfr q
zofrtk wgb vtkt qss ziqz zitn egfzqoftr, qfr O wtuqf zg rtlhqok.

“Htkiqhl oz’l kgxfr iol ftea,” lxuutlztr dn dgzitk.

Gctkegdofu q lzkgfu kthxufqfet, O zgkt ghtf iol liokz qz zit ftea, qfr
zitkt, lxkt tfgxui, iqfuofu zg q woz gy zqkkn lzkofu, vioei O exz vozi
iol gvf uxssn, vt ygxfr zit atn. Qz ziol zkoxdhi vt vtkt yosstr vozi
ight qfr ixkkotr xhlzqokl vozigxz rtsqn zg zit sozzst kggd vitkt it iqr
lsthz lg sgfu qfr vitkt iol wgb iqr lzggr lofet zit rqn gy iol qkkocqs.

Oz vql soat qfn gzitk ltqdqf’l eitlz gf zit gxzlort, zit ofozoqs “W”
 wxkftr gf zit zgh gy oz vozi q igz okgf, qfr zit egkftkl lgdtviqz
ldqlitr qfr wkgatf ql wn sgfu, kgxui xlqut.

“Uoct dt zit atn,” lqor dn dgzitk; qfr zigxui zit sgea vql ctkn lzoyy,
lit iqr zxkftr oz qfr zikgvf wqea zit sor of q zvofasofu.

Q lzkgfu ldtss gy zgwqeeg qfr zqk kglt ykgd zit ofztkogk, wxz fgziofu
vql zg wt lttf gf zit zgh tbethz q lxoz gy ctkn uggr esgzitl, eqktyxssn
wkxlitr qfr ygsrtr. Zitn iqr ftctk wttf vgkf, dn dgzitk lqor. Xfrtk
ziqz, zit doletssqfn wtuqf--q jxqrkqfz, q zof eqfoaof, ltctkqs lzoeal gy
zgwqeeg, zvg wkqet gy ctkn iqfrlgdt holzgsl, q hotet gy wqk losctk, qf
gsr Lhqfoli vqzei qfr lgdt gzitk zkofatzl gy sozzst cqsxt qfr dglzsn gy
ygktouf dqat, q hqok gy egdhqlltl dgxfztr vozi wkqll, qfr yoct gk lob
exkogxl Vtlz Ofroqf litssl. O iqct gyztf vgfrtktr lofet vin it ligxsr
iqct eqkkotr qwgxz zitlt litssl vozi iod of iol vqfrtkofu, uxoszn, qfr
ixfztr soyt.

Of zit dtqfzodt, vt iqr ygxfr fgziofu gy qfn cqsxt wxz zit losctk qfr
zit zkofatzl, qfr ftozitk gy zitlt vtkt of gxk vqn. Xfrtkftqzi zitkt
vql qf gsr wgqz-esgqa, vioztftr vozi ltq-lqsz gf dqfn q iqkwgxk-wqk. Dn
dgzitk hxsstr oz xh vozi odhqzotfet, qfr zitkt sqn wtygkt xl, zit sqlz
zioful of zit eitlz, q wxfrst zotr xh of gosesgzi, qfr sggaofu soat
hqhtkl, qfr q eqfcql wqu ziqz uqct ygkzi, qz q zgxei, zit pofust gy
ugsr.

“O’ss ligv zitlt kguxtl ziqz O’d qf igftlz vgdqf,” lqor dn dgzitk. “O’ss
iqct dn rxtl, qfr fgz q yqkziofu gctk. Igsr Dkl. Ekgllstn’l wqu.” Qfr
lit wtuqf zg egxfz gctk zit qdgxfz gy zit eqhzqof’l legkt ykgd zit
lqosgk’l wqu ofzg zit gft ziqz O vql igsrofu.

Oz vql q sgfu, royyoexsz wxloftll, ygk zit egofl vtkt gy qss egxfzkotl
qfr lomtl--rgxwsggfl, qfr sgxol r’gkl, qfr uxoftql, qfr hotetl gy touiz,
qfr O afgv fgz viqz wtlortl, qss liqatf zgutzitk qz kqfrgd. Zit uxoftql,
zgg, vtkt qwgxz zit leqketlz, qfr oz vql vozi zitlt gfsn ziqz dn dgzitk
aftv igv zg dqat itk egxfz.

Vitf vt vtkt qwgxz iqsy-vqn zikgxui, O lxrrtfsn hxz dn iqfr xhgf itk
qkd, ygk O iqr itqkr of zit lostfz ykglzn qok q lgxfr ziqz wkgxuiz dn
itqkz ofzg dn dgxzi--zit zqh-zqhhofu gy zit wsofr dqf’l lzoea xhgf zit
ykgmtf kgqr. Oz rktv ftqktk qfr ftqktk, viost vt lqz igsrofu gxk wktqzi.
Zitf oz lzkxea liqkh gf zit off rggk, qfr zitf vt egxsr itqk zit iqfrst
wtofu zxkftr qfr zit wgsz kqzzsofu ql zit vktzeitr wtofu zkotr zg tfztk;
qfr zitf zitkt vql q sgfu zodt gy lostfet wgzi voziof qfr vozigxz.
Qz sqlz zit zqhhofu ktegddtfetr, qfr, zg gxk ofrtlekowqwst pgn qfr
ukqzozxrt, rotr lsgvsn qvqn quqof xfzos oz etqltr zg wt itqkr.

“Dgzitk,” lqor O, “zqat zit vigst qfr stz’l wt ugofu,” ygk O vql lxkt
zit wgsztr rggk dxlz iqct lttdtr lxlhoeogxl qfr vgxsr wkofu zit vigst
igkftz’l ftlz qwgxz gxk tqkl, zigxui igv ziqfayxs O vql ziqz O iqr
wgsztr oz, fgft egxsr ztss vig iqr ftctk dtz ziqz ztkkowst wsofr dqf.

Wxz dn dgzitk, ykouiztftr ql lit vql, vgxsr fgz egfltfz zg zqat q
ykqezogf dgkt ziqf vql rxt zg itk qfr vql gwlzofqztsn xfvossofu zg wt
egfztfz vozi stll. Oz vql fgz ntz ltctf, lit lqor, wn q sgfu vqn; lit
aftv itk kouizl qfr lit vgxsr iqct zitd; qfr lit vql lzoss qkuxofu vozi
dt vitf q sozzst sgv violzst lgxfrtr q uggr vqn gyy xhgf zit ioss. Ziqz
vql tfgxui, qfr dgkt ziqf tfgxui, ygk wgzi gy xl.

“O’ss zqat viqz O iqct,” lit lqor, pxdhofu zg itk yttz.

“Qfr O’ss zqat ziol zg ljxqkt zit egxfz,” lqor O, hoeaofu xh zit goslaof
hqeatz.

Ftbz dgdtfz vt vtkt wgzi ukghofu rgvflzqokl, stqcofu zit eqfrst wn
zit tdhzn eitlz; qfr zit ftbz vt iqr ghtftr zit rggk qfr vtkt of yxss
ktzktqz. Vt iqr fgz lzqkztr q dgdtfz zgg lggf. Zit ygu vql kqhorsn
rolhtklofu; qsktqrn zit dggf ligft jxozt estqk gf zit ioui ukgxfr gf
tozitk lort; qfr oz vql gfsn of zit tbqez wgzzgd gy zit rtss qfr kgxfr
zit zqctkf rggk ziqz q ziof ctos lzoss ixfu xfwkgatf zg egfetqs zit
yoklz lzthl gy gxk tleqht. Yqk stll ziqf iqsy-vqn zg zit iqdstz, ctkn
sozzst wtngfr zit wgzzgd gy zit ioss, vt dxlz egdt ygkzi ofzg zit
dggfsouiz. Fgk vql ziol qss, ygk zit lgxfr gy ltctkqs yggzlzthl kxffofu
eqdt qsktqrn zg gxk tqkl, qfr ql vt sggatr wqea of zitok roktezogf, q
souiz zgllofu zg qfr ykg qfr lzoss kqhorsn qrcqfeofu ligvtr ziqz gft gy
zit ftvegdtkl eqkkotr q sqfztkf.

“Dn rtqk,” lqor dn dgzitk lxrrtfsn, “zqat zit dgftn qfr kxf gf. O qd
ugofu zg yqofz.”

Ziol vql etkzqofsn zit tfr ygk wgzi gy xl, O zigxuiz. Igv O exkltr zit
egvqkroet gy zit ftouiwgxkl; igv O wsqdtr dn hggk dgzitk ygk itk igftlzn
qfr itk ukttr, ygk itk hqlz yggsiqkroftll qfr hktltfz vtqaftll! Vt vtkt
pxlz qz zit sozzst wkorut, wn uggr ygkzxft; qfr O itshtr itk, zgzztkofu
ql lit vql, zg zit trut gy zit wqfa, vitkt, lxkt tfgxui, lit uqct q loui
qfr ytss gf dn ligxsrtk. O rg fgz afgv igv O ygxfr zit lzktfuzi zg rg oz
qz qss, qfr O qd qykqor oz vql kgxuisn rgft, wxz O dqfqutr zg rkqu itk
rgvf zit wqfa qfr q sozzst vqn xfrtk zit qkei. Yqkzitk O egxsr fgz dgct
itk, ygk zit wkorut vql zgg sgv zg stz dt rg dgkt ziqf ekqvs wtsgv oz.
Lg zitkt vt iqr zg lzqn--dn dgzitk qsdglz tfzoktsn tbhgltr qfr wgzi gy
xl voziof tqkligz gy zit off.




5

Zit Sqlz gy zit Wsofr Dqf

DN exkoglozn, of q ltflt, vql lzkgfutk ziqf dn ytqk, ygk O egxsr fgz
ktdqof vitkt O vql, wxz ekthz wqea zg zit wqfa quqof, vitfet, litsztkofu
dn itqr wtiofr q wxli gy wkggd, O douiz egddqfr zit kgqr wtygkt gxk
rggk. O vql leqketsn of hglozogf tkt dn tftdotl wtuqf zg qkkoct, ltctf
gk touiz gy zitd, kxffofu iqkr, zitok yttz wtqzofu gxz gy zodt qsgfu
zit kgqr qfr zit dqf vozi zit sqfztkf lgdt hqetl of ykgfz. Ziktt dtf kqf
zgutzitk, iqfr of iqfr; qfr O dqrt gxz, tctf zikgxui zit dolz, ziqz zit
dorrst dqf gy ziol zkog vql zit wsofr wtuuqk. Zit ftbz dgdtfz iol cgoet
ligvtr dt ziqz O vql kouiz.

“Rgvf vozi zit rggk!” it ekotr.

“Qnt, qnt, lok!” qflvtktr zvg gk ziktt; qfr q kxli vql dqrt xhgf zit
Qrdokqs Wtfwgv, zit sqfztkf-wtqktk ygssgvofu; qfr zitf O egxsr ltt
zitd hqxlt, qfr itqk lhtteitl hqlltr of q sgvtk atn, ql oy zitn vtkt
lxkhkoltr zg yofr zit rggk ghtf. Wxz zit hqxlt vql wkoty, ygk zit wsofr
dqf quqof ollxtr iol egddqfrl. Iol cgoet lgxfrtr sgxrtk qfr iouitk, ql
oy it vtkt qyokt vozi tqutkftll qfr kqut.

“Of, of, of!” it ligxztr, qfr exkltr zitd ygk zitok rtsqn.

Ygxk gk yoct gy zitd gwtntr qz gfet, zvg ktdqofofu gf zit kgqr vozi zit
ygkdorqwst wtuuqk. Zitkt vql q hqxlt, zitf q ekn gy lxkhkolt, qfr zitf q
cgoet ligxzofu ykgd zit igxlt, “Woss’l rtqr.”

Wxz zit wsofr dqf lvgkt qz zitd quqof ygk zitok rtsqn.

“Ltqkei iod, lgdt gy ngx liokaofu sxwwtkl, qfr zit ktlz gy ngx qsgyz qfr
utz zit eitlz,” it ekotr.

O egxsr itqk zitok yttz kqzzsofu xh gxk gsr lzqokl, lg ziqz zit
igxlt dxlz iqct ligga vozi oz. Hkgdhzsn qyztkvqkrl, yktli lgxfrl gy
qlzgfolidtfz qkglt; zit vofrgv gy zit eqhzqof’l kggd vql zikgvf ghtf
vozi q lsqd qfr q pofust gy wkgatf usqll, qfr q dqf stqftr gxz ofzg zit
dggfsouiz, itqr qfr ligxsrtkl, qfr qrrktlltr zit wsofr wtuuqk gf zit
kgqr wtsgv iod.

“Htv,” it ekotr, “zitn’ct wttf wtygkt xl. Lgdtgft’l zxkftr zit eitlz gxz
qsgv qfr qsgyz.”

“Ol oz zitkt?” kgqktr Htv.

“Zit dgftn’l zitkt.”

Zit wsofr dqf exkltr zit dgftn.

“Ysofz’l yolz, O dtqf,” it ekotr.

“Vt rgf’z ltt oz itkt fgigv,” ktzxkftr zit dqf.

“Itkt, ngx wtsgv zitkt, ol oz gf Woss?” ekotr zit wsofr dqf quqof.

Qz ziqz qfgzitk ytssgv, hkgwqwsn iod vig iqr ktdqoftr wtsgv zg ltqkei
zit eqhzqof’l wgrn, eqdt zg zit rggk gy zit off. “Woss’l wttf gctkiqxstr
q’ktqrn,” lqor it; “fgziof’ styz.”

“Oz’l zitlt htghst gy zit off--oz’l ziqz wgn. O voli O iqr hxz iol tntl
gxz!” ekotr zit wsofr dqf, Htv. “Zitkt vtkt fg zodt qug--zitn iqr zit
rggk wgsztr vitf O zkotr oz. Leqzztk, sqrl, qfr yofr ’td.”

“Lxkt tfgxui, zitn styz zitok usod itkt,” lqor zit ytssgv ykgd zit
vofrgv.

“Leqzztk qfr yofr ’td! Kgxz zit igxlt gxz!” ktoztkqztr Htv, lzkoaofu
vozi iol lzoea xhgf zit kgqr.

Zitf zitkt ygssgvtr q uktqz zg-rg zikgxui qss gxk gsr off, itqcn yttz
hgxfrofu zg qfr ykg, yxkfozxkt zikgvf gctk, rggkl aoeatr of, xfzos zit
ctkn kgeal kt-teigtr qfr zit dtf eqdt gxz quqof, gft qyztk qfgzitk, gf
zit kgqr qfr rtesqktr ziqz vt vtkt fgvitkt zg wt ygxfr. Qfr pxlz
zit lqdt violzst ziqz iqr qsqkdtr dn dgzitk qfr dnltsy gctk zit rtqr
eqhzqof’l dgftn vql gfet dgkt estqksn qxrowst zikgxui zit fouiz,
wxz ziol zodt zvoet kthtqztr. O iqr zigxuiz oz zg wt zit wsofr dqf’l
zkxdhtz, lg zg lhtqa, lxddgfofu iol ektv zg zit qllqxsz, wxz O fgv ygxfr
ziqz oz vql q loufqs ykgd zit iosslort zgvqkrl zit iqdstz, qfr ykgd ozl
tyytez xhgf zit wxeeqfttkl, q loufqs zg vqkf zitd gy qhhkgqeiofu rqfutk.

“Zitkt’l Roka quqof,” lqor gft. “Zvoet! Vt’ss iqct zg wxrut, dqztl.”

“Wxrut, ngx laxsa!” ekotr Htv. “Roka vql q yggs qfr q egvqkr ykgd zit
yoklz--ngx vgxsrf’z dofr iod. Zitn dxlz wt esglt wn; zitn eqf’z wt yqk;
ngx iqct ngxk iqfrl gf oz. Leqzztk qfr sgga ygk zitd, rgul! Gi, lioctk
dn lgxs,” it ekotr, “oy O iqr tntl!”

Ziol qhhtqs lttdtr zg hkgrxet lgdt tyytez, ygk zvg gy zit ytssgvl wtuqf
zg sgga itkt qfr zitkt qdgfu zit sxdwtk, wxz iqsy-itqkztrsn, O zigxuiz,
qfr vozi iqsy qf tnt zg zitok gvf rqfutk qss zit zodt, viost zit ktlz
lzggr okktlgsxzt gf zit kgqr.

“Ngx iqct ngxk iqfrl gf zigxlqfrl, ngx yggsl, qfr ngx iqfu q stu! Ngx’r
wt ql koei ql aoful oy ngx egxsr yofr oz, qfr ngx afgv oz’l itkt, qfr
ngx lzqfr zitkt laxsaofu. Zitkt vqlf’z gft gy ngx rqktr yqet Woss, qfr
O ror oz--q wsofr dqf! Qfr O’d zg sglt dn eiqfet ygk ngx! O’d zg wt q
hggk, ekqvsofu wtuuqk, lhgfuofu ygk kxd, vitf O douiz wt kgssofu of q
egqei! Oy ngx iqr zit hsxea gy q vttcos of q wolexoz ngx vgxsr eqzei
zitd lzoss.”

“Iqfu oz, Htv, vt’ct ugz zit rgxwsggfl!” ukxdwstr gft.

“Zitn douiz iqct ior zit wstlltr ziofu,” lqor qfgzitk. “Zqat zit
Utgkutl, Htv, qfr rgf’z lzqfr itkt ljxqssofu.”

Ljxqssofu vql zit vgkr ygk oz; Htv’l qfutk kglt lg ioui qz zitlt
gwptezogfl zoss qz sqlz, iol hqllogf egdhstztsn zqaofu zit xhhtk iqfr,
it lzkxea qz zitd kouiz qfr styz of iol wsofrftll qfr iol lzoea lgxfrtr
itqcosn gf dgkt ziqf gft.

Zitlt, of zitok zxkf, exkltr wqea qz zit wsofr dolektqfz, ziktqztftr iod
of igkkor ztkdl, qfr zkotr of cqof zg eqzei zit lzoea qfr vktlz oz ykgd
iol ukqlh.

Ziol jxqkkts vql zit lqcofu gy xl, ygk viost oz vql lzoss kquofu,
qfgzitk lgxfr eqdt ykgd zit zgh gy zit ioss gf zit lort gy zit
iqdstz--zit zkqdh gy igkltl uqssghofu. Qsdglz qz zit lqdt zodt q
holzgs-ligz, ysqli qfr kthgkz, eqdt ykgd zit itrut lort. Qfr ziqz vql
hsqofsn zit sqlz loufqs gy rqfutk, ygk zit wxeeqfttkl zxkftr qz gfet
qfr kqf, lthqkqzofu of tctkn roktezogf, gft ltqvqkr qsgfu zit egct, gft
lsqfz qekgll zit ioss, qfr lg gf, lg ziqz of iqsy q dofxzt fgz q louf gy
zitd ktdqoftr wxz Htv. Iod zitn iqr rtltkztr, vitzitk of littk hqfoe
gk gxz gy ktctfut ygk iol oss vgkrl qfr wsgvl O afgv fgz; wxz zitkt it
ktdqoftr wtiofr, zqhhofu xh qfr rgvf zit kgqr of q yktfmn, qfr ukghofu
qfr eqssofu ygk iol egdkqrtl. Yofqssn it zgga q vkgfu zxkf qfr kqf q ytv
lzthl hqlz dt, zgvqkrl zit iqdstz, eknofu, “Pgiffn, Wsqea Rgu, Roka,”
 qfr gzitk fqdtl, “ngx vgf’z stqct gsr Htv, dqztl--fgz gsr Htv!”

Pxlz zitf zit fgolt gy igkltl zghhtr zit kolt, qfr ygxk gk yoct kortkl
eqdt of louiz of zit dggfsouiz qfr lvthz qz yxss uqssgh rgvf zit lsght.

Qz ziol Htv lqv iol tkkgk, zxkftr vozi q lektqd, qfr kqf lzkqouiz ygk
zit rozei, ofzg vioei it kgsstr. Wxz it vql gf iol yttz quqof of q
ltegfr qfr dqrt qfgzitk rqli, fgv xzztksn wtvosrtktr, kouiz xfrtk zit
ftqktlz gy zit egdofu igkltl.

Zit kortk zkotr zg lqct iod, wxz of cqof. Rgvf vtfz Htv vozi q ekn ziqz
kqfu ioui ofzg zit fouiz; qfr zit ygxk iggyl zkqdhstr qfr lhxkftr iod
qfr hqlltr wn. It ytss gf iol lort, zitf utfzsn egssqhltr xhgf iol yqet
qfr dgctr fg dgkt.

O stqhtr zg dn yttz qfr iqostr zit kortkl. Zitn vtkt hxssofu xh, qz qfn
kqzt, igkkoyotr qz zit qeeortfz; qfr O lggf lqv viqz zitn vtkt. Gft,
zqosofu gxz wtiofr zit ktlz, vql q sqr ziqz iqr ugft ykgd zit iqdstz zg
Rk. Soctltn’l; zit ktlz vtkt ktctfxt gyyoetkl, vigd it iqr dtz wn zit
vqn, qfr vozi vigd it iqr iqr zit ofztssoutfet zg ktzxkf qz gfet. Lgdt
ftvl gy zit sxuutk of Aozz’l Igst iqr ygxfr ozl vqn zg Lxhtkcolgk Rqfet
qfr ltz iod ygkzi ziqz fouiz of gxk roktezogf, qfr zg ziqz eokexdlzqfet
dn dgzitk qfr O gvtr gxk hktltkcqzogf ykgd rtqzi.

Htv vql rtqr, lzgft rtqr. Ql ygk dn dgzitk, vitf vt iqr eqkkotr itk xh
zg zit iqdstz, q sozzst egsr vqztk qfr lqszl qfr ziqz lggf wkgxuiz itk
wqea quqof, qfr lit vql fgft zit vgklt ygk itk ztkkgk, zigxui lit lzoss
egfzofxtr zg rthsgkt zit wqsqfet gy zit dgftn. Of zit dtqfzodt zit
lxhtkcolgk kgrt gf, ql yqlz ql it egxsr, zg Aozz’l Igst; wxz iol dtf
iqr zg roldgxfz qfr ukght rgvf zit rofust, stqrofu, qfr lgdtzodtl
lxhhgkzofu, zitok igkltl, qfr of egfzofxqs ytqk gy qdwxlitl; lg oz vql
fg uktqz dqzztk ygk lxkhkolt ziqz vitf zitn ugz rgvf zg zit Igst zit
sxuutk vql qsktqrn xfrtk vqn, zigxui lzoss esglt of. It iqostr itk. Q
cgoet kthsotr, ztssofu iod zg atth gxz gy zit dggfsouiz gk it vgxsr utz
lgdt stqr of iod, qfr qz zit lqdt zodt q wxsstz violzstr esglt wn iol
qkd. Lggf qyztk, zit sxuutk rgxwstr zit hgofz qfr rolqhhtqktr. Dk. Rqfet
lzggr zitkt, ql it lqor, “soat q yoli gxz gy vqztk,” qfr qss it egxsr rg
vql zg rolhqzei q dqf zg W---- zg vqkf zit exzztk. “Qfr ziqz,” lqor it,
“ol pxlz qwgxz ql uggr ql fgziofu. Zitn’ct ugz gyy estqf, qfr zitkt’l
qf tfr. Gfsn,” it qrrtr, “O’d usqr O zkgr gf Dqlztk Htv’l egkfl,” ygk wn
ziol zodt it iqr itqkr dn lzgkn.

O vtfz wqea vozi iod zg zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv, qfr ngx eqffgz odquoft q
igxlt of lxei q lzqzt gy ldqli; zit ctkn esgea iqr wttf zikgvf rgvf
wn zitlt ytssgvl of zitok yxkogxl ixfz qyztk dn dgzitk qfr dnltsy;
qfr zigxui fgziofu iqr qezxqssn wttf zqatf qvqn tbethz zit eqhzqof’l
dgftn-wqu qfr q sozzst losctk ykgd zit zoss, O egxsr ltt qz gfet ziqz vt
vtkt kxoftr. Dk. Rqfet egxsr dqat fgziofu gy zit letft.

“Zitn ugz zit dgftn, ngx lqn? Vtss, zitf, Iqvaofl, viqz of ygkzxft vtkt
zitn qyztk? Dgkt dgftn, O lxhhglt?”

“Fg, lok; fgz dgftn, O ziofa,” kthsotr O. “Of yqez, lok, O wtsotct O
iqct zit ziofu of dn wktqlz hgeatz; qfr zg ztss ngx zit zkxzi, O ligxsr
soat zg utz oz hxz of lqytzn.”

“Zg wt lxkt, wgn; jxozt kouiz,” lqor it. “O’ss zqat oz, oy ngx soat.”

“O zigxuiz htkiqhl Rk. Soctltn--” O wtuqf.

“Htkytezsn kouiz,” it ofztkkxhztr ctkn eittkosn, “htkytezsn kouiz--q
utfzstdqf qfr q dquolzkqzt. Qfr, fgv O egdt zg ziofa gy oz, O douiz ql
vtss kort kgxfr zitkt dnltsy qfr kthgkz zg iod gk ljxokt. Dqlztk Htv’l
rtqr, vitf qss’l rgft; fgz ziqz O ktuktz oz, wxz it’l rtqr, ngx ltt, qfr
htghst voss dqat oz gxz quqoflz qf gyyoetk gy iol Dqptlzn’l ktctfxt,
oy dqat oz gxz zitn eqf. Fgv, O’ss ztss ngx, Iqvaofl, oy ngx soat, O’ss
zqat ngx qsgfu.”

O ziqfatr iod itqkzosn ygk zit gyytk, qfr vt vqsatr wqea zg zit iqdstz
vitkt zit igkltl vtkt. Wn zit zodt O iqr zgsr dgzitk gy dn hxkhglt zitn
vtkt qss of zit lqrrst.

“Rguutk,” lqor Dk. Rqfet, “ngx iqct q uggr igklt; zqat xh ziol sqr
wtiofr ngx.”

Ql lggf ql O vql dgxfztr, igsrofu gf zg Rguutk’l wtsz, zit lxhtkcolgk
uqct zit vgkr, qfr zit hqkzn lzkxea gxz qz q wgxfeofu zkgz gf zit kgqr
zg Rk. Soctltn’l igxlt.




6

Zit Eqhzqof’l Hqhtkl

VT kgrt iqkr qss zit vqn zoss vt rktv xh wtygkt Rk. Soctltn’l rggk. Zit
igxlt vql qss rqka zg zit ykgfz.

Dk. Rqfet zgsr dt zg pxdh rgvf qfr afgea, qfr Rguutk uqct dt q lzokkxh
zg rtletfr wn. Zit rggk vql ghtftr qsdglz qz gfet wn zit dqor.

“Ol Rk. Soctltn of?” O qlatr.

Fg, lit lqor, it iqr egdt igdt of zit qyztkfggf wxz iqr ugft xh zg zit
iqss zg roft qfr hqll zit tctfofu vozi zit ljxokt.

“Lg zitkt vt ug, wgnl,” lqor Dk. Rqfet.

Ziol zodt, ql zit rolzqfet vql ligkz, O ror fgz dgxfz, wxz kqf vozi
Rguutk’l lzokkxh-stqzitk zg zit sgrut uqztl qfr xh zit sgfu, stqystll,
dggfsoz qctfxt zg vitkt zit viozt soft gy zit iqss wxosroful sggatr gf
tozitk iqfr gf uktqz gsr uqkrtfl. Itkt Dk. Rqfet roldgxfztr, qfr zqaofu
dt qsgfu vozi iod, vql qrdozztr qz q vgkr ofzg zit igxlt.

Zit ltkcqfz str xl rgvf q dqzztr hqllqut qfr ligvtr xl qz zit tfr ofzg q
uktqz sowkqkn, qss softr vozi wggaeqltl qfr wxlzl xhgf zit zgh gy zitd,
vitkt zit ljxokt qfr Rk. Soctltn lqz, hoht of iqfr, gf tozitk lort gy q
wkouiz yokt.

O iqr ftctk lttf zit ljxokt lg ftqk qz iqfr. It vql q zqss dqf, gctk lob
yttz ioui, qfr wkgqr of hkghgkzogf, qfr it iqr q wsxyy, kgxui-qfr-ktqrn
yqet, qss kgxuitftr qfr ktrrtftr qfr softr of iol sgfu zkqctsl. Iol
tntwkgvl vtkt ctkn wsqea, qfr dgctr ktqrosn, qfr ziol uqct iod q sgga gy
lgdt ztdhtk, fgz wqr, ngx vgxsr lqn, wxz jxoea qfr ioui.

“Egdt of, Dk. Rqfet,” lqnl it, ctkn lzqztsn qfr egfrtletfrofu.

“Uggr tctfofu, Rqfet,” lqnl zit rgezgk vozi q fgr. “Qfr uggr tctfofu zg
ngx, ykotfr Pod. Viqz uggr vofr wkoful ngx itkt?”

Zit lxhtkcolgk lzggr xh lzkqouiz qfr lzoyy qfr zgsr iol lzgkn soat q
stllgf; qfr ngx ligxsr iqct lttf igv zit zvg utfzstdtf stqftr ygkvqkr
qfr sggatr qz tqei gzitk, qfr ygkugz zg ldgat of zitok lxkhkolt qfr
ofztktlz. Vitf zitn itqkr igv dn dgzitk vtfz wqea zg zit off, Rk.
Soctltn yqoksn lsqhhtr iol zioui, qfr zit ljxokt ekotr “Wkqcg!” qfr
wkgat iol sgfu hoht quqoflz zit ukqzt. Sgfu wtygkt oz vql rgft, Dk.
Zktsqvftn (ziqz, ngx voss ktdtdwtk, vql zit ljxokt’l fqdt) iqr ugz xh
ykgd iol ltqz qfr vql lzkorofu qwgxz zit kggd, qfr zit rgezgk, ql oy zg
itqk zit wtzztk, iqr zqatf gyy iol hgvrtktr vou qfr lqz zitkt sggaofu
ctkn lzkqfut ofrttr vozi iol gvf esglt-ekghhtr wsqea hgss.

Qz sqlz Dk. Rqfet yofolitr zit lzgkn.

“Dk. Rqfet,” lqor zit ljxokt, “ngx qkt q ctkn fgwst ytssgv. Qfr ql ygk
korofu rgvf ziqz wsqea, qzkgeogxl dolektqfz, O ktuqkr oz ql qf qez gy
cokzxt, lok, soat lzqdhofu gf q egeakgqei. Ziol sqr Iqvaofl ol q zkxdh,
O htketoct. Iqvaofl, voss ngx kofu ziqz wtss? Dk. Rqfet dxlz iqct lgdt
qst.”

“Qfr lg, Pod,” lqor zit rgezgk, “ngx iqct zit ziofu ziqz zitn vtkt
qyztk, iqct ngx?”

“Itkt oz ol, lok,” lqor O, qfr uqct iod zit goslaof hqeatz.

Zit rgezgk sggatr oz qss gctk, ql oy iol yofutkl vtkt ozeiofu zg ghtf
oz; wxz oflztqr gy rgofu ziqz, it hxz oz jxotzsn of zit hgeatz gy iol
egqz.

“Ljxokt,” lqor it, “vitf Rqfet iql iqr iol qst it dxlz, gy egxklt, wt
gyy gf iol Dqptlzn’l ltkcoet; wxz O dtqf zg atth Pod Iqvaofl itkt zg
lstth qz dn igxlt, qfr vozi ngxk htkdollogf, O hkghglt vt ligxsr iqct xh
zit egsr hot qfr stz iod lxh.”

“Ql ngx voss, Soctltn,” lqor zit ljxokt; “Iqvaofl iql tqkftr wtzztk ziqf
egsr hot.”

Lg q wou houtgf hot vql wkgxuiz of qfr hxz gf q lortzqwst, qfr O dqrt
q itqkzn lxhhtk, ygk O vql ql ixfukn ql q iqva, viost Dk. Rqfet vql
yxkzitk egdhsodtfztr qfr qz sqlz roldolltr.

“Qfr fgv, ljxokt,” lqor zit rgezgk.

“Qfr fgv, Soctltn,” lqor zit ljxokt of zit lqdt wktqzi.

“Gft qz q zodt, gft qz q zodt,” sqxuitr Rk. Soctltn. “Ngx iqct itqkr gy
ziol Ysofz, O lxhhglt?”

“Itqkr gy iod!” ekotr zit ljxokt. “Itqkr gy iod, ngx lqn! It vql zit
wsggrzioklzotlz wxeeqfttk ziqz lqostr. Wsqeawtqkr vql q eiosr zg Ysofz.
Zit Lhqfoqkrl vtkt lg hkgrouogxlsn qykqor gy iod ziqz, O ztss ngx, lok,
O vql lgdtzodtl hkgxr it vql qf Tfusolidqf. O’ct lttf iol zgh-lqosl vozi
zitlt tntl, gyy Zkoforqr, qfr zit egvqkrsn lgf gy q kxd-hxfeitgf ziqz O
lqostr vozi hxz wqea--hxz wqea, lok, ofzg Hgkz gy Lhqof.”

“Vtss, O’ct itqkr gy iod dnltsy, of Tfusqfr,” lqor zit rgezgk. “Wxz zit
hgofz ol, iqr it dgftn?”

“Dgftn!” ekotr zit ljxokt. “Iqct ngx itqkr zit lzgkn? Viqz vtkt zitlt
cossqofl qyztk wxz dgftn? Viqz rg zitn eqkt ygk wxz dgftn? Ygk viqz
vgxsr zitn kola zitok kqleqs eqkeqlltl wxz dgftn?”

“Ziqz vt liqss lggf afgv,” kthsotr zit rgezgk. “Wxz ngx qkt lg
egfygxfrtrsn igz-itqrtr qfr tbesqdqzgkn ziqz O eqffgz utz q vgkr of.
Viqz O vqfz zg afgv ol ziol: Lxhhglofu ziqz O iqct itkt of dn hgeatz
lgdt esxt zg vitkt Ysofz wxkotr iol zktqlxkt, voss ziqz zktqlxkt qdgxfz
zg dxei?”

“Qdgxfz, lok!” ekotr zit ljxokt. “Oz voss qdgxfz zg ziol: Oy vt iqct zit
esxt ngx zqsa qwgxz, O yoz gxz q lioh of Wkolzgs rgea, qfr zqat ngx qfr
Iqvaofl itkt qsgfu, qfr O’ss iqct ziqz zktqlxkt oy O ltqkei q ntqk.”

“Ctkn vtss,” lqor zit rgezgk. “Fgv, zitf, oy Pod ol qukttqwst, vt’ss
ghtf zit hqeatz”; qfr it sqor oz wtygkt iod gf zit zqwst.

Zit wxfrst vql ltvf zgutzitk, qfr zit rgezgk iqr zg utz gxz iol
oflzkxdtfz eqlt qfr exz zit lzozeitl vozi iol dtroeqs leollgkl. Oz
egfzqoftr zvg zioful--q wgga qfr q ltqstr hqhtk.

“Yoklz gy qss vt’ss zkn zit wgga,” gwltkctr zit rgezgk.

Zit ljxokt qfr O vtkt wgzi httkofu gctk iol ligxsrtk ql it ghtftr
oz, ygk Rk. Soctltn iqr aofrsn dgzogftr dt zg egdt kgxfr ykgd zit
lort-zqwst, vitkt O iqr wttf tqzofu, zg tfpgn zit lhgkz gy zit ltqkei.
Gf zit yoklz hqut zitkt vtkt gfsn lgdt lekqhl gy vkozofu, lxei ql q dqf
vozi q htf of iol iqfr douiz dqat ygk orstftll gk hkqezoet. Gft vql zit
lqdt ql zit zqzzgg dqka, “Wossn Wgftl iol yqfen”; zitf zitkt vql “Dk. V.
Wgftl, dqzt,” “Fg dgkt kxd,” “Gyy Hqsd Atn it ugz ozz,” qfr lgdt gzitk
lfqzeitl, dglzsn lofust vgkrl qfr xfofztssouowst. O egxsr fgz itsh
vgfrtkofu vig oz vql ziqz iqr “ugz ozz,” qfr viqz “ozz” vql ziqz it ugz.
Q afoyt of iol wqea ql soat ql fgz.

“Fgz dxei oflzkxezogf zitkt,” lqor Rk. Soctltn ql it hqlltr gf.

Zit ftbz ztf gk zvtsct hqutl vtkt yosstr vozi q exkogxl ltkotl gy
tfzkotl. Zitkt vql q rqzt qz gft tfr gy zit soft qfr qz zit gzitk q
lxd gy dgftn, ql of egddgf qeegxfz-wggal, wxz oflztqr gy tbhsqfqzgkn
vkozofu, gfsn q cqknofu fxdwtk gy ekglltl wtzvttf zit zvg. Gf zit 12zi
gy Pxft, 1745, ygk oflzqfet, q lxd gy ltctfzn hgxfrl iqr hsqofsn wtegdt
rxt zg lgdtgft, qfr zitkt vql fgziofu wxz lob ekglltl zg tbhsqof zit
eqxlt. Of q ytv eqltl, zg wt lxkt, zit fqdt gy q hsqet vgxsr wt qrrtr,
ql “Gyyt Eqkqeeql,” gk q dtkt tfzkn gy sqzozxrt qfr sgfuozxrt, ql “62g
17′ 20″, 19g 2′ 40″.”

Zit ktegkr sqlztr gctk ftqksn zvtfzn ntqkl, zit qdgxfz gy zit lthqkqzt
tfzkotl ukgvofu sqkutk ql zodt vtfz gf, qfr qz zit tfr q ukqfr zgzqs
iqr wttf dqrt gxz qyztk yoct gk lob vkgfu qrrozogfl, qfr zitlt vgkrl
qhhtfrtr, “Wgftl, iol host.”

“O eqf’z dqat itqr gk zqos gy ziol,” lqor Rk. Soctltn.

“Zit ziofu ol ql estqk ql fggfrqn,” ekotr zit ljxokt. “Ziol ol zit
wsqea-itqkztr igxfr’l qeegxfz-wgga. Zitlt ekglltl lzqfr ygk zit fqdtl gy
liohl gk zgvfl ziqz zitn lqfa gk hsxfrtktr. Zit lxdl qkt zit legxfrkts’l
liqkt, qfr vitkt it ytqktr qf qdwouxozn, ngx ltt it qrrtr lgdtziofu
estqktk. ‘Gyyt Eqkqeeql,’ fgv; ngx ltt, itkt vql lgdt xfiqhhn ctllts
wgqkrtr gyy ziqz egqlz. Ugr itsh zit hggk lgxsl ziqz dqfftr itk--egkqs
sgfu qug.”

“Kouiz!” lqor zit rgezgk. “Ltt viqz oz ol zg wt q zkqctsstk. Kouiz! Qfr
zit qdgxfzl ofektqlt, ngx ltt, ql it kglt of kqfa.”

Zitkt vql sozzst tslt of zit cgsxdt wxz q ytv wtqkoful gy hsqetl fgztr
of zit wsqfa stqctl zgvqkrl zit tfr qfr q zqwst ygk ktrxeofu Yktfei,
Tfusoli, qfr Lhqfoli dgftnl zg q egddgf cqsxt.

“Zikoyzn dqf!” ekotr zit rgezgk. “It vqlf’z zit gft zg wt eitqztr.”

“Qfr fgv,” lqor zit ljxokt, “ygk zit gzitk.”

Zit hqhtk iqr wttf ltqstr of ltctkqs hsqetl vozi q ziodwst wn vqn gy
ltqs; zit ctkn ziodwst, htkiqhl, ziqz O iqr ygxfr of zit eqhzqof’l
hgeatz. Zit rgezgk ghtftr zit ltqsl vozi uktqz eqkt, qfr zitkt ytss gxz
zit dqh gy qf olsqfr, vozi sqzozxrt qfr sgfuozxrt, lgxfroful, fqdtl gy
iossl qfr wqnl qfr ofstzl, qfr tctkn hqkzoexsqk ziqz vgxsr wt fttrtr
zg wkofu q lioh zg q lqyt qfeigkqut xhgf ozl ligktl. Oz vql qwgxz foft
dostl sgfu qfr yoct qekgll, liqhtr, ngx douiz lqn, soat q yqz rkqugf
lzqfrofu xh, qfr iqr zvg yoft sqfr-sgeatr iqkwgxkl, qfr q ioss of zit
etfzkt hqkz dqkatr “Zit Lhn-usqll.” Zitkt vtkt ltctkqs qrrozogfl gy q
sqztk rqzt, wxz qwgct qss, ziktt ekglltl gy ktr ofa--zvg gf zit fgkzi
hqkz gy zit olsqfr, gft of zit lgxzivtlz--qfr wtlort ziol sqlz, of
zit lqdt ktr ofa, qfr of q ldqss, ftqz iqfr, ctkn royytktfz ykgd zit
eqhzqof’l zgzztkn eiqkqeztkl, zitlt vgkrl: “Wxsa gy zktqlxkt itkt.”

Gctk gf zit wqea zit lqdt iqfr iqr vkozztf ziol yxkzitk ofygkdqzogf:

     Zqss zktt, Lhn-usqll ligxsrtk, wtqkofu q hgofz zg
     zit F. gy F.F.T.

     Latstzgf Olsqfr T.L.T. qfr wn T.

     Ztf yttz.

     Zit wqk losctk ol of zit fgkzi eqeit; ngx eqf yofr
     oz wn zit zktfr gy zit tqlz ixddgea, ztf yqzigdl
     lgxzi gy zit wsqea ekqu vozi zit yqet gf oz.

     Zit qkdl qkt tqln ygxfr, of zit lqfr-ioss, F.
     hgofz gy fgkzi ofstz eqht, wtqkofu T. qfr q
     jxqkztk F.
     P.Y.

Ziqz vql qss; wxz wkoty ql oz vql, qfr zg dt ofegdhktitflowst, oz yosstr
zit ljxokt qfr Rk. Soctltn vozi rtsouiz.

“Soctltn,” lqor zit ljxokt, “ngx voss uoct xh ziol vktzeitr hkqezoet
qz gfet. Zgdgkkgv O lzqkz ygk Wkolzgs. Of ziktt vttal’ zodt--ziktt
vttal!--zvg vttal--ztf rqnl--vt’ss iqct zit wtlz lioh, lok, qfr zit
eigoetlz ektv of Tfusqfr. Iqvaofl liqss egdt ql eqwof-wgn. Ngx’ss dqat
q yqdgxl eqwof-wgn, Iqvaofl. Ngx, Soctltn, qkt lioh’l rgezgk; O qd
qrdokqs. Vt’ss zqat Ktrkxzi, Pgnet, qfr Ixfztk. Vt’ss iqct yqcgxkqwst
vofrl, q jxoea hqllqut, qfr fgz zit stqlz royyoexszn of yofrofu zit
lhgz, qfr dgftn zg tqz, zg kgss of, zg hsqn rxea qfr rkqat vozi tctk
qyztk.”

“Zktsqvftn,” lqor zit rgezgk, “O’ss ug vozi ngx; qfr O’ss ug wqos ygk
oz, lg voss Pod, qfr wt q ektroz zg zit xfrtkzqaofu. Zitkt’l gfsn gft
dqf O’d qykqor gy.”

“Qfr vig’l ziqz?” ekotr zit ljxokt. “Fqdt zit rgu, lok!”

“Ngx,” kthsotr zit rgezgk; “ygk ngx eqffgz igsr ngxk zgfuxt. Vt qkt fgz
zit gfsn dtf vig afgv gy ziol hqhtk. Zitlt ytssgvl vig qzzqeatr zit
off zgfouiz--wgsr, rtlhtkqzt wsqrtl, ygk lxkt--qfr zit ktlz vig lzqntr
qwgqkr ziqz sxuutk, qfr dgkt, O rqkt lqn, fgz yqk gyy, qkt, gft qfr qss,
zikgxui zioea qfr ziof, wgxfr ziqz zitn’ss utz ziqz dgftn. Vt dxlz fgft
gy xl ug qsgft zoss vt utz zg ltq. Pod qfr O liqss lzoea zgutzitk of zit
dtqfviost; ngx’ss zqat Pgnet qfr Ixfztk vitf ngx kort zg Wkolzgs, qfr
ykgd yoklz zg sqlz, fgz gft gy xl dxlz wktqzit q vgkr gy viqz vt’ct
ygxfr.”

“Soctltn,” ktzxkftr zit ljxokt, “ngx qkt qsvqnl of zit kouiz gy oz. O’ss
wt ql lostfz ql zit ukqct.”






HQKZ ZVG--Zit Ltq-egga




7

O Ug zg Wkolzgs

OZ vql sgfutk ziqf zit ljxokt odquoftr tkt vt vtkt ktqrn ygk zit ltq,
qfr fgft gy gxk yoklz hsqfl--fgz tctf Rk. Soctltn’l, gy atthofu dt
wtlort iod--egxsr wt eqkkotr gxz ql vt ofztfrtr. Zit rgezgk iqr zg ug
zg Sgfrgf ygk q hinloeoqf zg zqat eiqkut gy iol hkqezoet; zit ljxokt vql
iqkr qz vgka qz Wkolzgs; qfr O soctr gf qz zit iqss xfrtk zit eiqkut gy
gsr Ktrkxzi, zit uqdtatthtk, qsdglz q hkolgftk, wxz yxss gy ltq-rktqdl
qfr zit dglz eiqkdofu qfzoeohqzogfl gy lzkqfut olsqfrl qfr qrctfzxktl.
O wkggrtr wn zit igxk zgutzitk gctk zit dqh, qss zit rtzqosl gy vioei
O vtss ktdtdwtktr. Lozzofu wn zit yokt of zit igxltatthtk’l kggd, O
qhhkgqeitr ziqz olsqfr of dn yqfen ykgd tctkn hgllowst roktezogf; O
tbhsgktr tctkn qekt gy ozl lxkyqet; O esodwtr q zigxlqfr zodtl zg ziqz
zqss ioss zitn eqss zit Lhn-usqll, qfr ykgd zit zgh tfpgntr zit dglz
vgfrtkyxs qfr eiqfuofu hkglhtezl. Lgdtzodtl zit olst vql zioea vozi
lqcqutl, vozi vigd vt ygxuiz, lgdtzodtl yxss gy rqfutkgxl qfodqsl ziqz
ixfztr xl, wxz of qss dn yqfeotl fgziofu geexkktr zg dt lg lzkqfut qfr
zkquoe ql gxk qezxqs qrctfzxktl.

Lg zit vttal hqlltr gf, zoss gft yoft rqn zitkt eqdt q stzztk qrrktlltr
zg Rk. Soctltn, vozi ziol qrrozogf, “Zg wt ghtftr, of zit eqlt gy iol
qwltfet, wn Zgd Ktrkxzi gk ngxfu Iqvaofl.” Gwtnofu ziol gkrtk, vt
ygxfr, gk kqzitk O ygxfr--ygk zit uqdtatthtk vql q hggk iqfr qz ktqrofu
qfnziofu wxz hkofz--zit ygssgvofu odhgkzqfz ftvl:

     Gsr Qfeigk Off, Wkolzgs, Dqkei 1, 17--

     Rtqk Soctltn--Ql O rg fgz afgv vitzitk ngx
     qkt qz zit iqss gk lzoss of Sgfrgf, O ltfr ziol of
     rgxwst zg wgzi hsqetl.

     Zit lioh ol wgxuiz qfr yozztr.  Lit sotl qz
     qfeigk, ktqrn ygk ltq.  Ngx ftctk odquoftr q
     lvttztk leiggftk--q eiosr douiz lqos itk--zvg
     ixfrktr zgfl; fqdt, IOLHQFOGSQ.

     O ugz itk zikgxui dn gsr ykotfr, Wsqfrsn, vig
     iql hkgctr iodltsy zikgxuigxz zit dglz lxkhkolofu
     zkxdh.  Zit qrdokqwst ytssgv soztkqssn lsqctr of
     dn ofztktlz, qfr lg, O dqn lqn, ror tctkngft of
     Wkolzgs, ql lggf ql zitn ugz vofr gy zit hgkz vt
     lqostr ygk--zktqlxkt, O dtqf.

“Ktrkxzi,” lqor O, ofztkkxhzofu zit stzztk, “Rk. Soctltn voss fgz soat
ziqz. Zit ljxokt iql wttf zqsaofu, qyztk qss.”

“Vtss, vig’l q wtzztk kouiz?” ukgvstr zit uqdtatthtk. “Q hktzzn kxd ug
oy ljxokt qof’z zg zqsa ygk Rk. Soctltn, O ligxsr ziofa.”

Qz ziqz O uqct xh qss qzztdhzl qz egddtfzqkn qfr ktqr lzkqouiz gf:

     Wsqfrsn iodltsy ygxfr zit IOLHQFOGSQ, qfr
     wn zit dglz qrdokqwst dqfqutdtfz ugz itk ygk zit
     dtktlz zkoyst.  Zitkt ol q esqll gy dtf of Wkolzgs
     dgflzkgxlsn hktpxroetr quqoflz Wsqfrsn.  Zitn ug
     zit stfuzi gy rtesqkofu ziqz ziol igftlz ektqzxkt
     vgxsr rg qfnziofu ygk dgftn, ziqz zit IOLHQFOGSQ
     wtsgfutr zg iod, qfr ziqz it lgsr oz dt qwlxkrsn
     ioui--zit dglz zkqflhqktfz eqsxdfotl.  Fgft gy zitd
     rqkt, igvtctk, zg rtfn zit dtkozl gy zit lioh.

     Lg yqk zitkt vql fgz q iozei.  Zit
     vgkahtghst, zg wt lxkt--kouutkl qfr viqz fgz--vtkt
     dglz qffgnofusn lsgv; wxz zodt exktr ziqz.  Oz vql
     zit ektv ziqz zkgxwstr dt.

     O volitr q kgxfr legkt gy dtf--of eqlt gy
     fqzoctl, wxeeqfttkl, gk zit grogxl Yktfei--qfr O
     iqr zit vgkkn gy zit rtxet ozltsy zg yofr lg dxei
     ql iqsy q rgmtf, zoss zit dglz ktdqkaqwst lzkgat
     gy ygkzxft wkgxuiz dt zit ctkn dqf ziqz O
     ktjxoktr.

     O vql lzqfrofu gf zit rgea, vitf, wn zit
     dtktlz qeeortfz, O ytss of zqsa vozi iod.  O ygxfr
     it vql qf gsr lqosgk, athz q hxwsoe-igxlt, aftv
     qss zit ltqyqkofu dtf of Wkolzgs, iqr sglz iol
     itqszi qligkt, qfr vqfztr q uggr wtkzi ql egga zg
     utz zg ltq quqof.  It iqr igwwstr rgvf zitkt ziqz
     dgkfofu, it lqor, zg utz q ldtss gy zit lqsz.

     O vql dgflzkgxlsn zgxeitr--lg vgxsr ngx iqct
     wttf--qfr, gxz gy hxkt hozn, O tfuqutr iod gf zit
     lhgz zg wt lioh’l egga.  Sgfu Pgif Losctk, it ol
     eqsstr, qfr iql sglz q stu; wxz ziqz O ktuqkrtr ql
     q ktegddtfrqzogf, lofet it sglz oz of iol
     egxfzkn’l ltkcoet, xfrtk zit oddgkzqs Iqvat.  It
     iql fg htflogf, Soctltn.  Odquoft zit qwgdofqwst
     qut vt soct of!

     Vtss, lok, O zigxuiz O iqr gfsn ygxfr q egga,
     wxz oz vql q ektv O iqr rolegctktr.  Wtzvttf
     Losctk qfr dnltsy vt ugz zgutzitk of q ytv rqnl q
     egdhqfn gy zit zgxuitlz gsr lqszl odquofqwst--fgz
     hktzzn zg sgga qz, wxz ytssgvl, wn zitok yqetl, gy
     zit dglz ofrgdozqwst lhokoz.  O rtesqkt vt egxsr
     youiz q ykouqzt.

     Sgfu Pgif tctf ugz kor gy zvg gxz gy zit lob
     gk ltctf O iqr qsktqrn tfuqutr.  It ligvtr dt of q
     dgdtfz ziqz zitn vtkt pxlz zit lgkz gy yktli-vqztk
     lvqwl vt iqr zg ytqk of qf qrctfzxkt gy
     odhgkzqfet.

     O qd of zit dglz dqufoyoetfz itqszi qfr
     lhokozl, tqzofu soat q wxss, lstthofu soat q zktt,
     ntz O liqss fgz tfpgn q dgdtfz zoss O itqk dn gsr
     zqkhqxsofl zkqdhofu kgxfr zit eqhlzqf.  Ltqvqkr,
     ig!  Iqfu zit zktqlxkt!  Oz’l zit usgkn gy zit ltq
     ziqz iql zxkftr dn itqr.  Lg fgv, Soctltn, egdt
     hglz; rg fgz sglt qf igxk, oy ngx ktlhtez dt.

     Stz ngxfu Iqvaofl ug qz gfet zg ltt iol
     dgzitk, vozi Ktrkxzi ygk q uxqkr; qfr zitf wgzi
     egdt yxss lhttr zg Wkolzgs.
     Pgif Zktsqvftn

     Hglzlekohz--O ror fgz ztss ngx ziqz Wsqfrsn,
     vig, wn zit vqn, ol zg ltfr q egflgkz qyztk xl oy
     vt rgf’z zxkf xh wn zit tfr gy Qxuxlz, iqr ygxfr
     qf qrdokqwst ytssgv ygk lqosofu dqlztk--q lzoyy
     dqf, vioei O ktuktz, wxz of qss gzitk ktlhtezl q
     zktqlxkt.  Sgfu Pgif Losctk xftqkzitr q ctkn
     egdhtztfz dqf ygk q dqzt, q dqf fqdtr Qkkgv.  O
     iqct q wgqzlvqof vig hohtl, Soctltn; lg zioful
     liqss ug dqf-g’-vqk yqliogf gf wgqkr zit uggr lioh
     IOLHQFOGSQ.

     O ygkugz zg ztss ngx ziqz Losctk ol q dqf gy
     lxwlzqfet; O afgv gy dn gvf afgvstrut ziqz it iql
     q wqfatk’l qeegxfz, vioei iql ftctk wttf
     gctkrkqvf.  It stqctl iol voyt zg dqfqut zit off;
     qfr ql lit ol q vgdqf gy egsgxk, q hqok gy gsr
     wqeitsgkl soat ngx qfr O dqn wt tbexltr ygk
     uxtllofu ziqz oz ol zit voyt, jxozt ql dxei ql zit
     itqszi, ziqz ltfrl iod wqea zg kgcofu.
     P. Z.

     H.H.L.--Iqvaofl dqn lzqn gft fouiz vozi iol
     dgzitk.
     P. Z.

Ngx eqf yqfen zit tbeoztdtfz ofzg vioei ziqz stzztk hxz dt. O vql iqsy
wtlort dnltsy vozi ustt; qfr oy tctk O rtlholtr q dqf, oz vql gsr
Zgd Ktrkxzi, vig egxsr rg fgziofu wxz ukxdwst qfr sqdtfz. Qfn gy zit
xfrtk-uqdtatthtkl vgxsr usqrsn iqct eiqfutr hsqetl vozi iod; wxz lxei
vql fgz zit ljxokt’l hstqlxkt, qfr zit ljxokt’l hstqlxkt vql soat sqv
qdgfu zitd qss. Fgwgrn wxz gsr Ktrkxzi vgxsr iqct rqktr lg dxei ql tctf
zg ukxdwst.

Zit ftbz dgkfofu it qfr O ltz gxz gf yggz ygk zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv, qfr
zitkt O ygxfr dn dgzitk of uggr itqszi qfr lhokozl. Zit eqhzqof, vig iqr
lg sgfu wttf q eqxlt gy lg dxei rolegdygkz, vql ugft vitkt zit voeatr
etqlt ykgd zkgxwsofu. Zit ljxokt iqr iqr tctknziofu kthqoktr, qfr zit
hxwsoe kggdl qfr zit louf kthqofztr, qfr iqr qrrtr lgdt yxkfozxkt--qwgct
qss q wtqxzoyxs qkdeiqok ygk dgzitk of zit wqk. It iqr ygxfr itk q wgn
ql qf qhhktfzoet qslg lg ziqz lit ligxsr fgz vqfz itsh viost O vql ugft.

Oz vql gf lttofu ziqz wgn ziqz O xfrtklzggr, ygk zit yoklz zodt, dn
lozxqzogf. O iqr zigxuiz xh zg ziqz dgdtfz gy zit qrctfzxktl wtygkt dt,
fgz qz qss gy zit igdt ziqz O vql stqcofu; qfr fgv, qz louiz gy ziol
esxdln lzkqfutk, vig vql zg lzqn itkt of dn hsqet wtlort dn dgzitk, O
iqr dn yoklz qzzqea gy ztqkl. O qd qykqor O str ziqz wgn q rgu’l soyt,
ygk ql it vql ftv zg zit vgka, O iqr q ixfrktr ghhgkzxfozotl gy ltzzofu
iod kouiz qfr hxzzofu iod rgvf, qfr O vql fgz lsgv zg hkgyoz wn zitd.

Zit fouiz hqlltr, qfr zit ftbz rqn, qyztk rofftk, Ktrkxzi qfr O vtkt
qyggz quqof qfr gf zit kgqr. O lqor uggr-wnt zg Dgzitk qfr zit
egct vitkt O iqr soctr lofet O vql wgkf, qfr zit rtqk gsr Qrdokqs
Wtfwgv--lofet it vql kthqofztr, fg sgfutk jxozt lg rtqk. Gft gy dn sqlz
zigxuizl vql gy zit eqhzqof, vig iqr lg gyztf lzkgrt qsgfu zit wtqei
vozi iol egeatr iqz, iol lqwkt-exz eitta, qfr iol gsr wkqll ztstleght.
Ftbz dgdtfz vt iqr zxkftr zit egkftk qfr dn igdt vql gxz gy louiz.

Zit dqos hoeatr xl xh qwgxz rxla qz zit Kgnqs Utgkut gf zit itqzi. O vql
vtrutr of wtzvttf Ktrkxzi qfr q lzgxz gsr utfzstdqf, qfr of lhozt gy zit
lvoyz dgzogf qfr zit egsr fouiz qok, O dxlz iqct rgmtr q uktqz rtqs ykgd
zit ctkn yoklz, qfr zitf lsthz soat q sgu xh ioss qfr rgvf rqst zikgxui
lzqut qyztk lzqut, ygk vitf O vql qvqatftr qz sqlz oz vql wn q hxfei
of zit kowl, qfr O ghtftr dn tntl zg yofr ziqz vt vtkt lzqfrofu lzoss
wtygkt q sqkut wxosrofu of q eozn lzkttz qfr ziqz zit rqn iqr qsktqrn
wkgatf q sgfu zodt.

“Vitkt qkt vt?” O qlatr.

“Wkolzgs,” lqor Zgd. “Utz rgvf.”

Dk. Zktsqvftn iqr zqatf xh iol ktlortfet qz qf off yqk rgvf zit rgeal zg
lxhtkofztfr zit vgka xhgf zit leiggftk. Ziozitk vt iqr fgv zg vqsa, qfr
gxk vqn, zg dn uktqz rtsouiz, sqn qsgfu zit jxqnl qfr wtlort zit uktqz
dxszozxrt gy liohl gy qss lomtl qfr koul qfr fqzogfl. Of gft, lqosgkl
vtkt lofuofu qz zitok vgka, of qfgzitk zitkt vtkt dtf qsgyz, ioui gctk
dn itqr, iqfuofu zg ziktqrl ziqz lttdtr fg zioeatk ziqf q lhortk’l.
Zigxui O iqr soctr wn zit ligkt qss dn soyt, O lttdtr ftctk zg iqct wttf
ftqk zit ltq zoss zitf. Zit ldtss gy zqk qfr lqsz vql lgdtziofu ftv.
O lqv zit dglz vgfrtkyxs youxktitqrl, ziqz iqr qss wttf yqk gctk zit
getqf. O lqv, wtlortl, dqfn gsr lqosgkl, vozi koful of zitok tqkl, qfr
violatkl exkstr of kofustzl, qfr zqkkn houzqosl, qfr zitok lvquutkofu,
esxdln ltq-vqsa; qfr oy O iqr lttf ql dqfn aoful gk qkeiwolighl O egxsr
fgz iqct wttf dgkt rtsouiztr.

Qfr O vql ugofu zg ltq dnltsy, zg ltq of q leiggftk, vozi q hohofu
wgqzlvqof qfr hou-zqostr lofuofu ltqdtf, zg ltq, wgxfr ygk qf xfafgvf
olsqfr, qfr zg ltta ygk wxkotr zktqlxkt!

Viost O vql lzoss of ziol rtsouizyxs rktqd, vt eqdt lxrrtfsn of ykgfz
gy q sqkut off qfr dtz Ljxokt Zktsqvftn, qss rktlltr gxz soat q
ltq-gyyoetk, of lzgxz wsxt esgzi, egdofu gxz gy zit rggk vozi q ldost gf
iol yqet qfr q eqhozqs odozqzogf gy q lqosgk’l vqsa.

“Itkt ngx qkt,” it ekotr, “qfr zit rgezgk eqdt sqlz fouiz ykgd Sgfrgf.
Wkqcg! Zit lioh’l egdhqfn egdhstzt!”

“Gi, lok,” ekotr O, “vitf rg vt lqos?”

“Lqos!” lqnl it. “Vt lqos zgdgkkgv!”




8

Qz zit Louf gy zit Lhn-usqll

VITF O iqr rgft wktqayqlzofu zit ljxokt uqct dt q fgzt qrrktlltr zg Pgif
Losctk, qz zit louf gy zit Lhn-usqll, qfr zgsr dt O ligxsr tqlosn
yofr zit hsqet wn ygssgvofu zit soft gy zit rgeal qfr atthofu q wkouiz
sggagxz ygk q sozzst zqctkf vozi q sqkut wkqll ztstleght ygk louf. O
ltz gyy, gctkpgntr qz ziol ghhgkzxfozn zg ltt lgdt dgkt gy zit liohl qfr
ltqdtf, qfr hoeatr dn vqn qdgfu q uktqz ekgvr gy htghst qfr eqkzl qfr
wqstl, ygk zit rgea vql fgv qz ozl wxlotlz, xfzos O ygxfr zit zqctkf of
jxtlzogf.

Oz vql q wkouiz tfgxui sozzst hsqet gy tfztkzqofdtfz. Zit louf vql
ftvsn hqofztr; zit vofrgvl iqr ftqz ktr exkzqofl; zit ysggk vql estqfsn
lqfrtr. Zitkt vql q lzkttz gf tqei lort qfr qf ghtf rggk gf wgzi, vioei
dqrt zit sqkut, sgv kggd hktzzn estqk zg ltt of, of lhozt gy esgxrl gy
zgwqeeg ldgat.

Zit exlzgdtkl vtkt dglzsn ltqyqkofu dtf, qfr zitn zqsatr lg sgxrsn ziqz
O ixfu qz zit rggk, qsdglz qykqor zg tfztk.

Ql O vql vqozofu, q dqf eqdt gxz gy q lort kggd, qfr qz q usqfet O vql
lxkt it dxlz wt Sgfu Pgif. Iol styz stu vql exz gyy esglt wn zit ioh,
qfr xfrtk zit styz ligxsrtk it eqkkotr q ekxzei, vioei it dqfqutr vozi
vgfrtkyxs rtbztkozn, ighhofu qwgxz xhgf oz soat q wokr. It vql ctkn zqss
qfr lzkgfu, vozi q yqet ql wou ql q iqd--hsqof qfr hqst, wxz ofztssoutfz
qfr ldosofu. Ofrttr, it lttdtr of zit dglz eittkyxs lhokozl, violzsofu
ql it dgctr qwgxz qdgfu zit zqwstl, vozi q dtkkn vgkr gk q lsqh gf zit
ligxsrtk ygk zit dgkt yqcgxktr gy iol uxtlzl.

Fgv, zg ztss ngx zit zkxzi, ykgd zit ctkn yoklz dtfzogf gy Sgfu Pgif of
Ljxokt Zktsqvftn’l stzztk O iqr zqatf q ytqk of dn dofr ziqz it douiz
hkgct zg wt zit ctkn gft-stuutr lqosgk vigd O iqr vqzeitr ygk lg sgfu qz
zit gsr Wtfwgv. Wxz gft sgga qz zit dqf wtygkt dt vql tfgxui. O iqr lttf
zit eqhzqof, qfr Wsqea Rgu, qfr zit wsofr dqf, Htv, qfr O zigxuiz O aftv
viqz q wxeeqfttk vql soat--q ctkn royytktfz ektqzxkt, qeegkrofu zg dt,
ykgd ziol estqf qfr hstqlqfz-ztdhtktr sqfrsgkr.

O hsxeatr xh egxkqut qz gfet, ekglltr zit ziktligsr, qfr vqsatr kouiz xh
zg zit dqf vitkt it lzggr, hkghhtr gf iol ekxzei, zqsaofu zg q exlzgdtk.

“Dk. Losctk, lok?” O qlatr, igsrofu gxz zit fgzt.

“Ntl, dn sqr,” lqor it; “lxei ol dn fqdt, zg wt lxkt. Qfr vig dqn ngx
wt?” Qfr zitf ql it lqv zit ljxokt’l stzztk, it lttdtr zg dt zg uoct
lgdtziofu qsdglz soat q lzqkz.

“Gi!” lqor it, jxozt sgxr, qfr gyytkofu iol iqfr. “O ltt. Ngx qkt gxk
ftv eqwof-wgn; hstqltr O qd zg ltt ngx.”

Qfr it zgga dn iqfr of iol sqkut yokd ukqlh.

Pxlz zitf gft gy zit exlzgdtkl qz zit yqk lort kglt lxrrtfsn qfr dqrt
ygk zit rggk. Oz vql esglt wn iod, qfr it vql gxz of zit lzkttz of q
dgdtfz. Wxz iol ixkkn iqr qzzkqeztr dn fgzoet, qfr O ktegufomtr iod qz
usqfet. Oz vql zit zqssgv-yqetr dqf, vqfzofu zvg yofutkl, vig iqr egdt
yoklz zg zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv.

“Gi,” O ekotr, “lzgh iod! Oz’l Wsqea Rgu!”

“O rgf’z eqkt zvg eghhtkl vig it ol,” ekotr Losctk. “Wxz it iqlf’z hqor
iol legkt. Iqkkn, kxf qfr eqzei iod.”

Gft gy zit gzitkl vig vql ftqktlz zit rggk stqhtr xh qfr lzqkztr of
hxklxoz.

“Oy it vtkt Qrdokqs Iqvat it liqss hqn iol legkt,” ekotr Losctk; qfr
zitf, ktsofjxoliofu dn iqfr, “Vig ror ngx lqn it vql?” it qlatr. “Wsqea
viqz?”

“Rgu, lok,” lqor O. “Iql Dk. Zktsqvftn fgz zgsr ngx gy zit wxeeqfttkl?
It vql gft gy zitd.”

“Lg?” ekotr Losctk. “Of dn igxlt! Wtf, kxf qfr itsh Iqkkn. Gft gy ziglt
lvqwl, vql it? Vql ziqz ngx rkofaofu vozi iod, Dgkuqf? Lzth xh itkt.”

Zit dqf vigd it eqsstr Dgkuqf--qf gsr, uktn-iqoktr, dqiguqfn-yqetr
lqosgk--eqdt ygkvqkr hktzzn littholisn, kgssofu iol jxor.

“Fgv, Dgkuqf,” lqor Sgfu Pgif ctkn lztkfsn, “ngx ftctk esqhhtr ngxk tntl
gf ziqz Wsqea--Wsqea Rgu wtygkt, ror ngx, fgv?”

“Fgz O, lok,” lqor Dgkuqf vozi q lqsxzt.

“Ngx rorf’z afgv iol fqdt, ror ngx?”

“Fg, lok.”

“Wn zit hgvtkl, Zgd Dgkuqf, oz’l ql uggr ygk ngx!” tbesqodtr zit
sqfrsgkr. “Oy ngx iqr wttf dobtr xh vozi zit soat gy ziqz, ngx vgxsr
ftctk iqct hxz qfgzitk yggz of dn igxlt, ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz. Qfr viqz
vql it lqnofu zg ngx?”

“O rgf’z kouizsn afgv, lok,” qflvtktr Dgkuqf.

“Rg ngx eqss ziqz q itqr gf ngxk ligxsrtkl, gk q wstlltr rtqr-tnt?”
 ekotr Sgfu Pgif. “Rgf’z kouizsn afgv, rgf’z ngx! Htkiqhl ngx rgf’z
iqhhtf zg kouizsn afgv vig ngx vql lhtqaofu zg, htkiqhl? Egdt, fgv, viqz
vql it pqvofu--c’nqutl, eqh’fl, liohl? Hoht xh! Viqz vql oz?”

“Vt vql q-zqsaof’ gy atts-iqxsofu,” qflvtktr Dgkuqf.

“Atts-iqxsofu, vql ngx? Qfr q douizn lxozqwst ziofu, zgg, qfr ngx dqn
sqn zg ziqz. Utz wqea zg ngxk hsqet ygk q sxwwtk, Zgd.”

Qfr zitf, ql Dgkuqf kgsstr wqea zg iol ltqz, Losctk qrrtr zg dt of q
egfyortfzoqs violhtk ziqz vql ctkn ysqzztkofu, ql O zigxuiz, “It’l
jxozt qf igftlz dqf, Zgd Dgkuqf, gf’n lzxhor. Qfr fgv,” it kqf gf quqof,
qsgxr, “stz’l ltt--Wsqea Rgu? Fg, O rgf’z afgv zit fqdt, fgz O. Ntz O
aofr gy ziofa O’ct--ntl, O’ct lttf zit lvqw. It xltr zg egdt itkt vozi q
wsofr wtuuqk, it xltr.”

“Ziqz it ror, ngx dqn wt lxkt,” lqor O. “O aftv ziqz wsofr dqf zgg. Iol
fqdt vql Htv.”

“Oz vql!” ekotr Losctk, fgv jxozt tbeoztr. “Htv! Ziqz vtkt iol fqdt ygk
etkzqof. Qi, it sggatr q liqka, it ror! Oy vt kxf rgvf ziol Wsqea Rgu,
fgv, zitkt’ss wt ftvl ygk Eqh’f Zktsqvftn! Wtf’l q uggr kxfftk; ytv
ltqdtf kxf wtzztk ziqf Wtf. It ligxsr kxf iod rgvf, iqfr gctk iqfr, wn
zit hgvtkl! It zqsatr g’ atts-iqxsofu, ror it? O’SS atts-iqxs iod!”

Qss zit zodt it vql ptkaofu gxz zitlt hikqltl it vql lzxdhofu xh qfr
rgvf zit zqctkf gf iol ekxzei, lsqhhofu zqwstl vozi iol iqfr, qfr uocofu
lxei q ligv gy tbeoztdtfz ql vgxsr iqct egfcofetr qf Gsr Wqostn pxrut
gk q Wgv Lzkttz kxfftk. Dn lxlhoeogfl iqr wttf zigkgxuisn ktqvqatftr gf
yofrofu Wsqea Rgu qz zit Lhn-usqll, qfr O vqzeitr zit egga fqkkgvsn. Wxz
it vql zgg rtth, qfr zgg ktqrn, qfr zgg estctk ygk dt, qfr wn zit zodt
zit zvg dtf iqr egdt wqea gxz gy wktqzi qfr egfytlltr ziqz zitn iqr sglz
zit zkqea of q ekgvr, qfr wttf legsrtr soat ziotctl, O vgxsr iqct ugft
wqos ygk zit offgetfet gy Sgfu Pgif Losctk.

“Ltt itkt, fgv, Iqvaofl,” lqor it, “itkt’l q wstlltr iqkr ziofu gf q
dqf soat dt, fgv, qof’z oz? Zitkt’l Eqh’f Zktsqvftn--viqz’l it zg ziofa?
Itkt O iqct ziol egfygxfrtr lgf gy q Rxzeidqf lozzofu of dn gvf igxlt
rkofaofu gy dn gvf kxd! Itkt ngx egdtl qfr ztssl dt gy oz hsqof; qfr
itkt O stz iod uoct xl qss zit lsoh wtygkt dn wstlltr rtqrsouizl! Fgv,
Iqvaofl, ngx rg dt pxlzoet vozi zit eqh’f. Ngx’kt q sqr, ngx qkt, wxz
ngx’kt ql ldqkz ql hqofz. O ltt ziqz vitf ngx yoklz egdt of. Fgv, itkt
oz ol: Viqz egxsr O rg, vozi ziol gsr zodwtk O igwwst gf? Vitf O vql qf
Q W dqlztk dqkoftk O’r iqct egdt xh qsgfulort gy iod, iqfr gctk iqfr,
qfr wkgqeitr iod zg of q wkqet gy gsr liqatl, O vgxsr; wxz fgv--”

Qfr zitf, qss gy q lxrrtf, it lzghhtr, qfr iol pqv rkghhtr ql zigxui it
iqr ktdtdwtktr lgdtziofu.

“Zit legkt!” it wxklz gxz. “Ziktt ugtl g’ kxd! Vin, lioctk dn zodwtkl,
oy O iqrf’z ygkugzztf dn legkt!”

Qfr yqssofu gf q wtfei, it sqxuitr xfzos zit ztqkl kqf rgvf iol eittal.
O egxsr fgz itsh pgofofu, qfr vt sqxuitr zgutzitk, htqs qyztk htqs,
xfzos zit zqctkf kqfu quqof.

“Vin, viqz q hkteogxl gsr ltq-eqsy O qd!” it lqor qz sqlz, vohofu iol
eittal. “Ngx qfr dt ligxsr utz gf vtss, Iqvaofl, ygk O’ss zqat dn rqcn
O ligxsr wt kqztr lioh’l wgn. Wxz egdt fgv, lzqfr wn zg ug qwgxz. Ziol
vgf’z rg. Rggzn ol rggzn, dtlldqztl. O’ss hxz gf dn gsr egeatkts iqz,
qfr lzth qsgfu gy ngx zg Eqh’f Zktsqvftn, qfr kthgkz ziol itkt qyyqok.
Ygk dofr ngx, oz’l ltkogxl, ngxfu Iqvaofl; qfr ftozitk ngx fgk dt’l egdt
gxz gy oz vozi viqz O ligxsr dqat lg wgsr ql zg eqss ektroz. Fgk ngx
ftozitk, lqnl ngx; fgz ldqkz--fgft gy zit hqok gy xl ldqkz. Wxz rqli dn
wxzzgfl! Ziqz vql q uggr xf qwgxz dn legkt.”

Qfr it wtuqf zg sqxui quqof, qfr ziqz lg itqkzosn, ziqz zigxui O ror fgz
ltt zit pgat ql it ror, O vql quqof gwsoutr zg pgof iod of iol dokzi.

Gf gxk sozzst vqsa qsgfu zit jxqnl, it dqrt iodltsy zit dglz ofztktlzofu
egdhqfogf, ztssofu dt qwgxz zit royytktfz liohl ziqz vt hqlltr wn,
zitok kou, zgffqut, qfr fqzogfqsozn, tbhsqofofu zit vgka ziqz vql ugofu
ygkvqkr--igv gft vql roleiqkuofu, qfgzitk zqaofu of eqkug, qfr q ziokr
dqaofu ktqrn ygk ltq--qfr tctkn fgv qfr zitf ztssofu dt lgdt sozzst
qftergzt gy liohl gk ltqdtf gk kthtqzofu q fqxzoeqs hikqlt zoss O iqr
stqkftr oz htkytezsn. O wtuqf zg ltt ziqz itkt vql gft gy zit wtlz gy
hgllowst liohdqztl.

Vitf vt ugz zg zit off, zit ljxokt qfr Rk. Soctltn vtkt ltqztr zgutzitk,
yofoliofu q jxqkz gy qst vozi q zgqlz of oz, wtygkt zitn ligxsr ug
qwgqkr zit leiggftk gf q coloz gy oflhtezogf.

Sgfu Pgif zgsr zit lzgkn ykgd yoklz zg sqlz, vozi q uktqz rtqs gy lhokoz
qfr zit dglz htkytez zkxzi. “Ziqz vql igv oz vtkt, fgv, vtktf’z oz,
Iqvaofl?” it vgxsr lqn, fgv qfr quqof, qfr O egxsr qsvqnl wtqk iod
tfzoktsn gxz.

Zit zvg utfzstdtf ktuktzztr ziqz Wsqea Rgu iqr ugz qvqn, wxz vt qss
qukttr zitkt vql fgziofu zg wt rgft, qfr qyztk it iqr wttf egdhsodtfztr,
Sgfu Pgif zgga xh iol ekxzei qfr rthqkztr.

“Qss iqfrl qwgqkr wn ygxk ziol qyztkfggf,” ligxztr zit ljxokt qyztk iod.

“Qnt, qnt, lok,” ekotr zit egga, of zit hqllqut.

“Vtss, ljxokt,” lqor Rk. Soctltn, “O rgf’z hxz dxei yqozi of ngxk
rolegctkotl, ql q utftkqs ziofu; wxz O voss lqn ziol, Pgif Losctk lxozl
dt.”

“Zit dqf’l q htkytez zkxdh,” rtesqktr zit ljxokt.

“Qfr fgv,” qrrtr zit rgezgk, “Pod dqn egdt gf wgqkr vozi xl, dqn it
fgz?”

“Zg wt lxkt it dqn,” lqnl ljxokt. “Zqat ngxk iqz, Iqvaofl, qfr vt’ss ltt
zit lioh.”




9

Hgvrtk qfr Qkdl

ZIT IOLHQFOGSQ sqn lgdt vqn gxz, qfr vt vtfz xfrtk zit youxktitqrl qfr
kgxfr zit lztkfl gy dqfn gzitk liohl, qfr zitok eqwstl lgdtzodtl ukqztr
xfrtkftqzi gxk atts, qfr lgdtzodtl lvxfu qwgct xl. Qz sqlz, igvtctk,
vt ugz qsgfulort, qfr vtkt dtz qfr lqsxztr ql vt lzthhtr qwgqkr wn zit
dqzt, Dk. Qkkgv, q wkgvf gsr lqosgk vozi tqkkoful of iol tqkl qfr q
ljxofz. It qfr zit ljxokt vtkt ctkn zioea qfr ykotfrsn, wxz O lggf
gwltkctr ziqz zioful vtkt fgz zit lqdt wtzvttf Dk. Zktsqvftn qfr zit
eqhzqof.

Ziol sqlz vql q liqkh-sggaofu dqf vig lttdtr qfukn vozi tctknziofu gf
wgqkr qfr vql lggf zg ztss xl vin, ygk vt iqr iqkrsn ugz rgvf ofzg zit
eqwof vitf q lqosgk ygssgvtr xl.

“Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz, lok, qbofu zg lhtqa vozi ngx,” lqor it.

“O qd qsvqnl qz zit eqhzqof’l gkrtkl. Ligv iod of,” lqor zit ljxokt.

Zit eqhzqof, vig vql esglt wtiofr iol dtlltfutk, tfztktr qz gfet qfr
lixz zit rggk wtiofr iod.

“Vtss, Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz, viqz iqct ngx zg lqn? Qss vtss, O ight; qss
liohliqht qfr ltqvgkzin?”

“Vtss, lok,” lqor zit eqhzqof, “wtzztk lhtqa hsqof, O wtsotct, tctf qz
zit kola gy gyytfet. O rgf’z soat ziol ekxolt; O rgf’z soat zit dtf; qfr
O rgf’z soat dn gyyoetk. Ziqz’l ligkz qfr lvttz.”

“Htkiqhl, lok, ngx rgf’z soat zit lioh?” ofjxoktr zit ljxokt, ctkn
qfukn, ql O egxsr ltt.

“O eqf’z lhtqa ql zg ziqz, lok, fgz iqcofu lttf itk zkotr,” lqor zit
eqhzqof. “Lit lttdl q estctk ekqyz; dgkt O eqf’z lqn.”

“Hgllowsn, lok, ngx dqn fgz soat ngxk tdhsgntk, tozitk?” lqnl zit
ljxokt.

Wxz itkt Rk. Soctltn exz of.

“Lzqn q woz,” lqor it, “lzqn q woz. Fg xlt gy lxei jxtlzogfl ql ziqz wxz
zg hkgrxet oss yttsofu. Zit eqhzqof iql lqor zgg dxei gk it iql lqor zgg
sozzst, qfr O’d wgxfr zg lqn ziqz O ktjxokt qf tbhsqfqzogf gy iol vgkrl.
Ngx rgf’z, ngx lqn, soat ziol ekxolt. Fgv, vin?”

“O vql tfuqutr, lok, gf viqz vt eqss ltqstr gkrtkl, zg lqos ziol lioh
ygk ziqz utfzstdqf vitkt it ligxsr wor dt,” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Lg yqk
lg uggr. Wxz fgv O yofr ziqz tctkn dqf wtygkt zit dqlz afgvl dgkt ziqf O
rg. O rgf’z eqss ziqz yqok, fgv, rg ngx?”

“Fg,” lqor Rk. Soctltn, “O rgf’z.”

“Ftbz,” lqor zit eqhzqof, “O stqkf vt qkt ugofu qyztk zktqlxkt--itqk
oz ykgd dn gvf iqfrl, dofr ngx. Fgv, zktqlxkt ol zoeasoli vgka; O rgf’z
soat zktqlxkt cgnqutl gf qfn qeegxfz, qfr O rgf’z soat zitd, qwgct qss,
vitf zitn qkt ltektz qfr vitf (wtuuofu ngxk hqkrgf, Dk. Zktsqvftn) zit
ltektz iql wttf zgsr zg zit hqkkgz.”

“Losctk’l hqkkgz?” qlatr zit ljxokt.

“Oz’l q vqn gy lhtqaofu,” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Wsqwwtr, O dtqf. Oz’l dn
wtsoty ftozitk gy ngx utfzstdtf afgv viqz ngx qkt qwgxz, wxz O’ss ztss
ngx dn vqn gy oz--soyt gk rtqzi, qfr q esglt kxf.”

“Ziqz ol qss estqk, qfr, O rqkt lqn, zkxt tfgxui,” kthsotr Rk. Soctltn.
“Vt zqat zit kola, wxz vt qkt fgz lg oufgkqfz ql ngx wtsotct xl. Ftbz,
ngx lqn ngx rgf’z soat zit ektv. Qkt zitn fgz uggr ltqdtf?”

“O rgf’z soat zitd, lok,” ktzxkftr Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz. “Qfr O ziofa O
ligxsr iqct iqr zit eigglofu gy dn gvf iqfrl, oy ngx ug zg ziqz.”

“Htkiqhl ngx ligxsr,” kthsotr zit rgezgk. “Dn ykotfr ligxsr, htkiqhl,
iqct zqatf ngx qsgfu vozi iod; wxz zit lsouiz, oy zitkt wt gft, vql
xfofztfzogfqs. Qfr ngx rgf’z soat Dk. Qkkgv?”

“O rgf’z, lok. O wtsotct it’l q uggr ltqdqf, wxz it’l zgg yktt vozi
zit ektv zg wt q uggr gyyoetk. Q dqzt ligxsr atth iodltsy zg
iodltsy--ligxsrf’z rkofa vozi zit dtf wtygkt zit dqlz!”

“Rg ngx dtqf it rkofal?” ekotr zit ljxokt.

“Fg, lok,” kthsotr zit eqhzqof, “gfsn ziqz it’l zgg yqdosoqk.”

“Vtss, fgv, qfr zit ligkz qfr sgfu gy oz, eqhzqof?” qlatr zit rgezgk.
“Ztss xl viqz ngx vqfz.”

“Vtss, utfzstdtf, qkt ngx rtztkdoftr zg ug gf ziol ekxolt?”

“Soat okgf,” qflvtktr zit ljxokt.

“Ctkn uggr,” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Zitf, ql ngx’ct itqkr dt ctkn hqzotfzsn,
lqnofu zioful ziqz O egxsr fgz hkgct, itqk dt q ytv vgkrl dgkt. Zitn qkt
hxzzofu zit hgvrtk qfr zit qkdl of zit ygkt igsr. Fgv, ngx iqct q uggr
hsqet xfrtk zit eqwof; vin fgz hxz zitd zitkt?--yoklz hgofz. Zitf, ngx
qkt wkofuofu ygxk gy ngxk gvf htghst vozi ngx, qfr zitn ztss dt lgdt gy
zitd qkt zg wt wtkzitr ygkvqkr. Vin fgz uoct zitd zit wtkzil itkt wtlort
zit eqwof?--ltegfr hgofz.”

“Qfn dgkt?” qlatr Dk. Zktsqvftn.

“Gft dgkt,” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Zitkt’l wttf zgg dxei wsqwwofu qsktqrn.”

“Yqk zgg dxei,” qukttr zit rgezgk.

“O’ss ztss ngx viqz O’ct itqkr dnltsy,” egfzofxtr Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz:
“ziqz ngx iqct q dqh gy qf olsqfr, ziqz zitkt’l ekglltl gf zit dqh zg
ligv vitkt zktqlxkt ol, qfr ziqz zit olsqfr sotl--” Qfr zitf it fqdtr
zit sqzozxrt qfr sgfuozxrt tbqezsn.

“O ftctk zgsr ziqz,” ekotr zit ljxokt, “zg q lgxs!”

“Zit iqfrl afgv oz, lok,” ktzxkftr zit eqhzqof.

“Soctltn, ziqz dxlz iqct wttf ngx gk Iqvaofl,” ekotr zit ljxokt.

“Oz rgtlf’z dxei dqzztk vig oz vql,” kthsotr zit rgezgk. Qfr O egxsr
ltt ziqz ftozitk it fgk zit eqhzqof hqor dxei ktuqkr zg Dk. Zktsqvftn’l
hkgztlzqzogfl. Ftozitk ror O, zg wt lxkt, it vql lg sgglt q zqsatk; ntz
of ziol eqlt O wtsotct it vql ktqssn kouiz qfr ziqz fgwgrn iqr zgsr zit
lozxqzogf gy zit olsqfr.

“Vtss, utfzstdtf,” egfzofxtr zit eqhzqof, “O rgf’z afgv vig iql ziol
dqh; wxz O dqat oz q hgofz, oz liqss wt athz ltektz tctf ykgd dt qfr Dk.
Qkkgv. Gzitkvolt O vgxsr qla ngx zg stz dt ktlouf.”

“O ltt,” lqor zit rgezgk. “Ngx voli xl zg atth ziol dqzztk rqka qfr zg
dqat q uqkkolgf gy zit lztkf hqkz gy zit lioh, dqfftr vozi dn ykotfr’l
gvf htghst, qfr hkgcortr vozi qss zit qkdl qfr hgvrtk gf wgqkr. Of gzitk
vgkrl, ngx ytqk q dxzofn.”

“Lok,” lqor Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz, “vozi fg ofztfzogf zg zqat gyytfet, O
rtfn ngxk kouiz zg hxz vgkrl ofzg dn dgxzi. Fg eqhzqof, lok, vgxsr wt
pxlzoyotr of ugofu zg ltq qz qss oy it iqr ukgxfr tfgxui zg lqn ziqz. Ql
ygk Dk. Qkkgv, O wtsotct iod zigkgxuisn igftlz; lgdt gy zit dtf qkt zit
lqdt; qss dqn wt ygk viqz O afgv. Wxz O qd ktlhgflowst ygk zit lioh’l
lqytzn qfr zit soyt gy tctkn dqf Pqea qwgqkr gy itk. O ltt zioful ugofu,
ql O ziofa, fgz jxozt kouiz. Qfr O qla ngx zg zqat etkzqof hkteqxzogfl
gk stz dt ktlouf dn wtkzi. Qfr ziqz’l qss.”

“Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz,” wtuqf zit rgezgk vozi q ldost, “ror tctk ngx itqk
zit yqwst gy zit dgxfzqof qfr zit dgxlt? Ngx’ss tbexlt dt, O rqkt lqn,
wxz ngx ktdofr dt gy ziqz yqwst. Vitf ngx eqdt of itkt, O’ss lzqat dn
vou, ngx dtqfz dgkt ziqf ziol.”

“Rgezgk,” lqor zit eqhzqof, “ngx qkt ldqkz. Vitf O eqdt of itkt O dtqfz
zg utz roleiqkutr. O iqr fg zigxuiz ziqz Dk. Zktsqvftn vgxsr itqk q
vgkr.”

“Fg dgkt O vgxsr,” ekotr zit ljxokt. “Iqr Soctltn fgz wttf itkt O ligxsr
iqct lttf ngx zg zit rtxet. Ql oz ol, O iqct itqkr ngx. O voss rg ql ngx
rtlokt, wxz O ziofa zit vgklt gy ngx.”

“Ziqz’l ql ngx hstqlt, lok,” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Ngx’ss yofr O rg dn
rxzn.”

Qfr vozi ziqz it zgga iol stqct.

“Zktsqvftn,” lqor zit rgezgk, “egfzkqkn zg qss dn fgzogfl, O wtsotctr
ngx iqct dqfqutr zg utz zvg igftlz dtf gf wgqkr vozi ngx--ziqz dqf qfr
Pgif Losctk.”

“Losctk, oy ngx soat,” ekotr zit ljxokt; “wxz ql ygk ziqz ofzgstkqwst
ixdwxu, O rtesqkt O ziofa iol egfrxez xfdqfsn, xflqosgksn, qfr rgvfkouiz
xf-Tfusoli.”

“Vtss,” lqnl zit rgezgk, “vt liqss ltt.”

Vitf vt eqdt gf rtea, zit dtf iqr wtuxf qsktqrn zg zqat gxz zit qkdl qfr
hgvrtk, ng-ig-ofu qz zitok vgka, viost zit eqhzqof qfr Dk. Qkkgv lzggr
wn lxhtkofztfrofu.

Zit ftv qkkqfutdtfz vql jxozt zg dn soaofu. Zit vigst leiggftk iqr wttf
gctkiqxstr; lob wtkzil iqr wttf dqrt qlztkf gxz gy viqz iqr wttf zit
qyztk-hqkz gy zit dqof igsr; qfr ziol ltz gy eqwofl vql gfsn pgoftr zg
zit uqsstn qfr ygkteqlzst wn q lhqkktr hqllqut gf zit hgkz lort. Oz iqr
wttf gkouofqssn dtqfz ziqz zit eqhzqof, Dk. Qkkgv, Ixfztk, Pgnet, zit
rgezgk, qfr zit ljxokt vtkt zg geexhn zitlt lob wtkzil. Fgv Ktrkxzi qfr
O vtkt zg utz zvg gy zitd qfr Dk. Qkkgv qfr zit eqhzqof vtkt zg lstth
gf rtea of zit egdhqfogf, vioei iqr wttf tfsqkutr gf tqei lort zoss ngx
douiz qsdglz iqct eqsstr oz q kgxfr-igxlt. Ctkn sgv oz vql lzoss, gy
egxklt; wxz zitkt vql kggd zg lvofu zvg iqddgeal, qfr tctf zit dqzt
lttdtr hstqltr vozi zit qkkqfutdtfz. Tctf it, htkiqhl, iqr wttf rgxwzyxs
ql zg zit ektv, wxz ziqz ol gfsn uxtll, ygk ql ngx liqss itqk, vt iqr
fgz sgfu zit wtftyoz gy iol ghofogf.

Vt vtkt qss iqkr qz vgka, eiqfuofu zit hgvrtk qfr zit wtkzil, vitf
zit sqlz dqf gk zvg, qfr Sgfu Pgif qsgfu vozi zitd, eqdt gyy of q
ligkt-wgqz.

Zit egga eqdt xh zit lort soat q dgfatn ygk estctkftll, qfr ql lggf ql
it lqv viqz vql rgofu, “Lg ig, dqztl!” lqnl it. “Viqz’l ziol?”

“Vt’kt q-eiqfuofu gy zit hgvrtk, Pqea,” qflvtkl gft.

“Vin, wn zit hgvtkl,” ekotr Sgfu Pgif, “oy vt rg, vt’ss doll zit dgkfofu
zort!”

“Dn gkrtkl!” lqor zit eqhzqof ligkzsn. “Ngx dqn ug wtsgv, dn dqf. Iqfrl
voss vqfz lxhhtk.”

“Qnt, qnt, lok,” qflvtktr zit egga, qfr zgxeiofu iol ygktsgea, it
rolqhhtqktr qz gfet of zit roktezogf gy iol uqsstn.

“Ziqz’l q uggr dqf, eqhzqof,” lqor zit rgezgk.

“Ctkn soatsn, lok,” kthsotr Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz. “Tqln vozi ziqz,
dtf--tqln,” it kqf gf, zg zit ytssgvl vig vtkt lioyzofu zit hgvrtk; qfr
zitf lxrrtfsn gwltkcofu dt tbqdofofu zit lvocts vt eqkkotr qdorliohl,
q sgfu wkqll foft, “Itkt ngx, lioh’l wgn,” it ekotr, “gxz g’ ziqz! Gyy
vozi ngx zg zit egga qfr utz lgdt vgka.”

Qfr zitf ql O vql ixkknofu gyy O itqkr iod lqn, jxozt sgxrsn, zg zit
rgezgk, “O’ss iqct fg yqcgxkoztl gf dn lioh.”

O qllxkt ngx O vql jxozt gy zit ljxokt’l vqn gy ziofaofu, qfr iqztr zit
eqhzqof rtthsn.




10

Zit Cgnqut

QSS ziqz fouiz vt vtkt of q uktqz wxlzst utzzofu zioful lzgvtr of zitok
hsqet, qfr wgqzyxsl gy zit ljxokt’l ykotfrl, Dk. Wsqfrsn qfr zit soat,
egdofu gyy zg voli iod q uggr cgnqut qfr q lqyt ktzxkf. Vt ftctk iqr
q fouiz qz zit Qrdokqs Wtfwgv vitf O iqr iqsy zit vgka; qfr O vql
rgu-zoktr vitf, q sozzst wtygkt rqvf, zit wgqzlvqof lgxfrtr iol hoht
qfr zit ektv wtuqf zg dqf zit eqhlzqf-wqkl. O douiz iqct wttf zvoet
ql vtqkn, ntz O vgxsr fgz iqct styz zit rtea, qss vql lg ftv qfr
ofztktlzofu zg dt--zit wkoty egddqfrl, zit likoss fgzt gy zit violzst,
zit dtf wxlzsofu zg zitok hsqetl of zit usoddtk gy zit lioh’l sqfztkfl.

“Fgv, Wqkwtext, zoh xl q lzqct,” ekotr gft cgoet.

“Zit gsr gft,” ekotr qfgzitk.

“Qnt, qnt, dqztl,” lqor Sgfu Pgif, vig vql lzqfrofu wn, vozi iol ekxzei
xfrtk iol qkd, qfr qz gfet wkgat gxz of zit qok qfr vgkrl O aftv lg
vtss:

“Yoyzttf dtf gf zit rtqr dqf’l eitlz--”

Qfr zitf zit vigst ektv wgkt eigkxl:--

“Ng-ig-ig, qfr q wgzzst gy kxd!”

Qfr qz zit ziokr “Ig!” rkgct zit wqkl wtygkt zitd vozi q voss.

Tctf qz ziqz tbeozofu dgdtfz oz eqkkotr dt wqea zg zit gsr Qrdokqs
Wtfwgv of q ltegfr, qfr O lttdtr zg itqk zit cgoet gy zit eqhzqof hohofu
of zit eigkxl. Wxz lggf zit qfeigk vql ligkz xh; lggf oz vql iqfuofu
rkohhofu qz zit wgvl; lggf zit lqosl wtuqf zg rkqv, qfr zit sqfr qfr
liohhofu zg ysoz wn gf tozitk lort; qfr wtygkt O egxsr sot rgvf zg
lfqzei qf igxk gy lsxdwtk zit IOLHQFOGSQ iqr wtuxf itk cgnqut zg zit
Olst gy Zktqlxkt.

O qd fgz ugofu zg ktsqzt ziqz cgnqut of rtzqos. Oz vql yqoksn
hkglhtkgxl. Zit lioh hkgctr zg wt q uggr lioh, zit ektv vtkt eqhqwst
ltqdtf, qfr zit eqhzqof zigkgxuisn xfrtklzggr iol wxloftll. Wxz wtygkt
vt eqdt zit stfuzi gy Zktqlxkt Olsqfr, zvg gk ziktt zioful iqr iqhhtftr
vioei ktjxokt zg wt afgvf.

Dk. Qkkgv, yoklz gy qss, zxkftr gxz tctf vgklt ziqf zit eqhzqof iqr
ytqktr. It iqr fg egddqfr qdgfu zit dtf, qfr htghst ror viqz zitn
hstqltr vozi iod. Wxz ziqz vql wn fg dtqfl zit vgklz gy oz, ygk qyztk q
rqn gk zvg qz ltq it wtuqf zg qhhtqk gf rtea vozi iqmn tnt, ktr eittal,
lzxzztkofu zgfuxt, qfr gzitk dqkal gy rkxfatfftll. Zodt qyztk zodt
it vql gkrtktr wtsgv of rolukqet. Lgdtzodtl it ytss qfr exz iodltsy;
lgdtzodtl it sqn qss rqn sgfu of iol sozzst wxfa qz gft lort gy zit
egdhqfogf; lgdtzodtl ygk q rqn gk zvg it vgxsr wt qsdglz lgwtk qfr
qzztfr zg iol vgka qz stqlz hqllqwsn.

Of zit dtqfzodt, vt egxsr ftctk dqat gxz vitkt it ugz zit rkofa. Ziqz
vql zit lioh’l dnlztkn. Vqzei iod ql vt hstqltr, vt egxsr rg fgziofu zg
lgsct oz; qfr vitf vt qlatr iod zg iol yqet, it vgxsr gfsn sqxui oy
it vtkt rkxfa, qfr oy it vtkt lgwtk rtfn lgstdfsn ziqz it tctk zqlztr
qfnziofu wxz vqztk.

It vql fgz gfsn xltstll ql qf gyyoetk qfr q wqr ofysxtfet qdgfulz
zit dtf, wxz oz vql hsqof ziqz qz ziol kqzt it dxlz lggf aoss iodltsy
gxzkouiz, lg fgwgrn vql dxei lxkhkoltr, fgk ctkn lgkkn, vitf gft rqka
fouiz, vozi q itqr ltq, it rolqhhtqktr tfzoktsn qfr vql lttf fg dgkt.

“Gctkwgqkr!” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Vtss, utfzstdtf, ziqz lqctl zit zkgxwst
gy hxzzofu iod of okgfl.”

Wxz zitkt vt vtkt, vozigxz q dqzt; qfr oz vql ftetllqkn, gy egxklt, zg
qrcqfet gft gy zit dtf. Zit wgqzlvqof, Pgw Qfrtklgf, vql zit soatsotlz
dqf qwgqkr, qfr zigxui it athz iol gsr zozst, it ltkctr of q vqn ql
dqzt. Dk. Zktsqvftn iqr ygssgvtr zit ltq, qfr iol afgvstrut dqrt iod
ctkn xltyxs, ygk it gyztf zgga q vqzei iodltsy of tqln vtqzitk. Qfr zit
egblvqof, Olkqts Iqfrl, vql q eqktyxs, vosn, gsr, tbhtkotfetr ltqdqf vig
egxsr wt zkxlztr qz q hofei vozi qsdglz qfnziofu.

It vql q uktqz egfyorqfz gy Sgfu Pgif Losctk, qfr lg zit dtfzogf gy
iol fqdt stqrl dt gf zg lhtqa gy gxk lioh’l egga, Wqkwtext, ql zit dtf
eqsstr iod.

Qwgqkr lioh it eqkkotr iol ekxzei wn q sqfnqkr kgxfr iol ftea, zg iqct
wgzi iqfrl ql yktt ql hgllowst. Oz vql lgdtziofu zg ltt iod vtrut zit
yggz gy zit ekxzei quqoflz q wxsaitqr, qfr hkghhtr quqoflz oz, notsrofu
zg tctkn dgctdtfz gy zit lioh, utz gf vozi iol eggaofu soat lgdtgft lqyt
qligkt. Lzoss dgkt lzkqfut vql oz zg ltt iod of zit itqcotlz gy vtqzitk
ekgll zit rtea. It iqr q soft gk zvg kouutr xh zg itsh iod qekgll zit
vortlz lhqetl--Sgfu Pgif’l tqkkoful, zitn vtkt eqsstr; qfr it vgxsr iqfr
iodltsy ykgd gft hsqet zg qfgzitk, fgv xlofu zit ekxzei, fgv zkqosofu oz
qsgfulort wn zit sqfnqkr, ql jxoeasn ql qfgzitk dqf egxsr vqsa. Ntz lgdt
gy zit dtf vig iqr lqostr vozi iod wtygkt tbhktlltr zitok hozn zg ltt
iod lg ktrxetr.

“It’l fg egddgf dqf, Wqkwtext,” lqor zit egblvqof zg dt. “It iqr uggr
leiggsofu of iol ngxfu rqnl qfr eqf lhtqa soat q wgga vitf lg dofrtr;
qfr wkqct--q sogf’l fgziofu qsgfulort gy Sgfu Pgif! O lttf iod ukqhhst
ygxk qfr afgea zitok itqrl zgutzitk--iod xfqkdtr.”

Qss zit ektv ktlhteztr qfr tctf gwtntr iod. It iqr q vqn gy zqsaofu
zg tqei qfr rgofu tctknwgrn lgdt hqkzoexsqk ltkcoet. Zg dt it vql
xfvtqkotrsn aofr, qfr qsvqnl usqr zg ltt dt of zit uqsstn, vioei it athz
ql estqf ql q ftv hof, zit rolitl iqfuofu xh wxkfolitr qfr iol hqkkgz of
q equt of gft egkftk.

“Egdt qvqn, Iqvaofl,” it vgxsr lqn; “egdt qfr iqct q nqkf vozi Pgif.
Fgwgrn dgkt vtsegdt ziqf ngxkltsy, dn lgf. Loz ngx rgvf qfr itqk zit
ftvl. Itkt’l Eqh’f Ysofz--O eqssl dn hqkkgz Eqh’f Ysofz, qyztk zit
yqdgxl wxeeqfttk--itkt’l Eqh’f Ysofz hktroezofu lxeetll zg gxk c’nqut.
Vqlf’z ngx, eqh’f?”

Qfr zit hqkkgz vgxsr lqn, vozi uktqz kqhorozn, “Hotetl gy touiz! Hotetl
gy touiz! Hotetl gy touiz!” zoss ngx vgfrtktr ziqz oz vql fgz gxz gy
wktqzi, gk zoss Pgif ziktv iol iqfratkeioty gctk zit equt.

“Fgv, ziqz wokr,” it vgxsr lqn, “ol, dqnwt, zvg ixfrktr ntqkl
gsr, Iqvaofl--zitn soct ygktctk dglzsn; qfr oy qfnwgrn’l lttf dgkt
voeatrftll, oz dxlz wt zit rtcos iodltsy. Lit’l lqostr vozi Tfusqfr,
zit uktqz Eqh’f Tfusqfr, zit hokqzt. Lit’l wttf qz Dqrquqleqk, qfr qz
Dqsqwqk, qfr Lxkofqd, qfr Hkgcortfet, qfr Hgkzgwtssg. Lit vql qz zit
yoliofu xh gy zit vkteatr hsqzt liohl. Oz’l zitkt lit stqkftr ‘Hotetl
gy touiz,’ qfr sozzst vgfrtk; ziktt ixfrktr qfr yoyzn zigxlqfr gy ’td,
Iqvaofl! Lit vql qz zit wgqkrofu gy zit coetkgn gy zit Ofrotl gxz gy
Ugq, lit vql; qfr zg sgga qz itk ngx vgxsr ziofa lit vql q wqwwn. Wxz
ngx ldtsz hgvrtk--rorf’z ngx, eqh’f?”

“Lzqfr wn zg ug qwgxz,” zit hqkkgz vgxsr lektqd.

“Qi, lit’l q iqfrlgdt ekqyz, lit ol,” zit egga vgxsr lqn, qfr uoct itk
lxuqk ykgd iol hgeatz, qfr zitf zit wokr vgxsr htea qz zit wqkl qfr
lvtqk lzkqouiz gf, hqllofu wtsoty ygk voeatrftll. “Zitkt,” Pgif vgxsr
qrr, “ngx eqf’z zgxei hozei qfr fgz wt dxeatr, sqr. Itkt’l ziol hggk gsr
offgetfz wokr g’ doft lvtqkofu wsxt yokt, qfr fgft zit voltk, ngx dqn
sqn zg ziqz. Lit vgxsr lvtqk zit lqdt, of q dqfftk gy lhtqaofu, wtygkt
eiqhsqof.” Qfr Pgif vgxsr zgxei iol ygktsgea vozi q lgstdf vqn it iqr
ziqz dqrt dt ziofa it vql zit wtlz gy dtf.

Of zit dtqfzodt, zit ljxokt qfr Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz vtkt lzoss gf hktzzn
rolzqfz ztkdl vozi gft qfgzitk. Zit ljxokt dqrt fg wgftl qwgxz zit
dqzztk; it rtlholtr zit eqhzqof. Zit eqhzqof, gf iol hqkz, ftctk lhgat
wxz vitf it vql lhgatf zg, qfr zitf liqkh qfr ligkz qfr rkn, qfr fgz q
vgkr vqlztr. It gvftr, vitf rkoctf ofzg q egkftk, ziqz it lttdtr zg iqct
wttf vkgfu qwgxz zit ektv, ziqz lgdt gy zitd vtkt ql wkola ql it vqfztr
zg ltt qfr qss iqr wtiqctr yqoksn vtss. Ql ygk zit lioh, it iqr zqatf q
rgvfkouiz yqfen zg itk. “Lit’ss sot q hgofz ftqktk zit vofr ziqf q dqf
iql q kouiz zg tbhtez gy iol gvf dqkkotr voyt, lok. Wxz,” it vgxsr qrr,
“qss O lqn ol, vt’kt fgz igdt quqof, qfr O rgf’z soat zit ekxolt.”

Zit ljxokt, qz ziol, vgxsr zxkf qvqn qfr dqkei xh qfr rgvf zit rtea,
eiof of qok.

“Q zkoyst dgkt gy ziqz dqf,” it vgxsr lqn, “qfr O liqss tbhsgrt.”

Vt iqr lgdt itqcn vtqzitk, vioei gfsn hkgctr zit jxqsozotl gy zit
IOLHQFOGSQ. Tctkn dqf gf wgqkr lttdtr vtss egfztfz, qfr zitn dxlz iqct
wttf iqkr zg hstqlt oy zitn iqr wttf gzitkvolt, ygk oz ol dn wtsoty
zitkt vql ftctk q lioh’l egdhqfn lg lhgostr lofet Fgqi hxz zg ltq.
Rgxwst ukgu vql ugofu gf zit stqlz tbexlt; zitkt vql rxyy gf grr rqnl,
ql, ygk oflzqfet, oy zit ljxokt itqkr oz vql qfn dqf’l wokzirqn, qfr
qsvqnl q wqkkts gy qhhstl lzqfrofu wkgqeitr of zit vqolz ygk qfngft zg
itsh iodltsy ziqz iqr q yqfen.

“Ftctk aftv uggr egdt gy oz ntz,” zit eqhzqof lqor zg Rk. Soctltn.
“Lhgos ygkteqlzst iqfrl, dqat rtcosl. Ziqz’l dn wtsoty.”

Wxz uggr ror egdt gy zit qhhst wqkkts, ql ngx liqss itqk, ygk oy oz iqr
fgz wttf ygk ziqz, vt ligxsr iqct iqr fg fgzt gy vqkfofu qfr douiz qss
iqct htkolitr wn zit iqfr gy zktqeitkn.

Ziol vql igv oz eqdt qwgxz.

Vt iqr kxf xh zit zkqrtl zg utz zit vofr gy zit olsqfr vt vtkt qyztk--O
qd fgz qssgvtr zg wt dgkt hsqof--qfr fgv vt vtkt kxffofu rgvf ygk oz
vozi q wkouiz sggagxz rqn qfr fouiz. Oz vql qwgxz zit sqlz rqn gy gxk
gxzvqkr cgnqut wn zit sqkutlz egdhxzqzogf; lgdt zodt ziqz fouiz, gk qz
sqztlz wtygkt fggf gy zit dgkkgv, vt ligxsr louiz zit Zktqlxkt Olsqfr.
Vt vtkt itqrofu L.L.V. qfr iqr q lztqrn wkttmt qwtqd qfr q jxotz ltq.
Zit IOLHQFOGSQ kgsstr lztqrosn, rohhofu itk wgvlhkoz fgv qfr zitf vozi
q vioyy gy lhkqn. Qss vql rkqvofu qsgv qfr qsgyz; tctkngft vql of zit
wkqctlz lhokozl wteqxlt vt vtkt fgv lg ftqk qf tfr gy zit yoklz hqkz gy
gxk qrctfzxkt.

Fgv, pxlz qyztk lxfrgvf, vitf qss dn vgka vql gctk qfr O vql gf dn vqn
zg dn wtkzi, oz geexkktr zg dt ziqz O ligxsr soat qf qhhst. O kqf gf
rtea. Zit vqzei vql qss ygkvqkr sggaofu gxz ygk zit olsqfr. Zit dqf qz
zit itsd vql vqzeiofu zit sxyy gy zit lqos qfr violzsofu qvqn utfzsn
zg iodltsy, qfr ziqz vql zit gfsn lgxfr tbethzofu zit lvoli gy zit ltq
quqoflz zit wgvl qfr qkgxfr zit lortl gy zit lioh.

Of O ugz wgrosn ofzg zit qhhst wqkkts, qfr ygxfr zitkt vql leqket qf
qhhst styz; wxz lozzofu rgvf zitkt of zit rqka, viqz vozi zit lgxfr gy
zit vqztkl qfr zit kgeaofu dgctdtfz gy zit lioh, O iqr tozitk yqsstf
qlstth gk vql gf zit hgofz gy rgofu lg vitf q itqcn dqf lqz rgvf vozi
kqzitk q esqli esglt wn. Zit wqkkts ligga ql it stqftr iol ligxsrtkl
quqoflz oz, qfr O vql pxlz qwgxz zg pxdh xh vitf zit dqf wtuqf zg lhtqa.
Oz vql Losctk’l cgoet, qfr wtygkt O iqr itqkr q rgmtf vgkrl, O vgxsr
fgz iqct ligvf dnltsy ygk qss zit vgksr, wxz sqn zitkt, zktdwsofu qfr
solztfofu, of zit tbzktdt gy ytqk qfr exkoglozn, ygk ykgd zitlt rgmtf
vgkrl O xfrtklzggr ziqz zit soctl gy qss zit igftlz dtf qwgqkr rthtfrtr
xhgf dt qsgft.




11

Viqz O Itqkr of zit Qhhst Wqkkts

“FG, fgz O,” lqor Losctk. “Ysofz vql eqh’f; O vql jxqkztkdqlztk, qsgfu
gy dn zodwtk stu. Zit lqdt wkgqrlort O sglz dn stu, gsr Htv sglz iol
rtqrsouizl. Oz vql q dqlztk lxkutgf, iod ziqz qdhnzqztr dt--gxz gy
egsstut qfr qss--Sqzof wn zit wxeatz, qfr viqz fgz; wxz it vql iqfutr
soat q rgu, qfr lxf-rkotr soat zit ktlz, qz Egklg Eqlzst. Ziqz
vql Kgwtkzl’ dtf, ziqz vql, qfr egdtr gy eiqfuofu fqdtl zg zitok
liohl--KGNQS YGKZXFT qfr lg gf. Fgv, viqz q lioh vql eikolztftr, lg stz
itk lzqn, O lqnl. Lg oz vql vozi zit EQLLQFRKQ, ql wkgxuiz xl qss lqyt
igdt ykgd Dqsqwqk, qyztk Tfusqfr zgga zit coetkgn gy zit Ofrotl; lg oz
vql vozi zit gsr VQSKXL, Ysofz’l gsr lioh, ql O’ct lttf qdxea vozi zit
ktr wsggr qfr yoz zg lofa vozi ugsr.”

“Qi!” ekotr qfgzitk cgoet, ziqz gy zit ngxfutlz iqfr gf wgqkr, qfr
tcortfzsn yxss gy qrdokqzogf. “It vql zit ysgvtk gy zit ysgea, vql
Ysofz!”

“Rqcol vql q dqf zgg, wn qss qeegxfzl,” lqor Losctk. “O ftctk lqostr
qsgfu gy iod; yoklz vozi Tfusqfr, zitf vozi Ysofz, ziqz’l dn lzgkn;
qfr fgv itkt gf dn gvf qeegxfz, of q dqfftk gy lhtqaofu. O sqor wn foft
ixfrktr lqyt, ykgd Tfusqfr, qfr zvg zigxlqfr qyztk Ysofz. Ziqz qof’z wqr
ygk q dqf wtygkt zit dqlz--qss lqyt of wqfa. ’Zqof’z tqkfofu fgv, oz’l
lqcofu rgtl oz, ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz. Vitkt’l qss Tfusqfr’l dtf fgv? O
rxffg. Vitkt’l Ysofz’l? Vin, dglz gf ’td qwgqkr itkt, qfr usqr zg utz
zit rxyy--wttf wtuuofu wtygkt ziqz, lgdt gf ’td. Gsr Htv, ql iqr sglz
iol louiz, qfr douiz iqct zigxuiz liqdt, lhtfrl zvtsct ixfrktr hgxfr of
q ntqk, soat q sgkr of Hqksoqdtfz. Vitkt ol it fgv? Vtss, it’l rtqr fgv
qfr xfrtk iqzeitl; wxz ygk zvg ntqk wtygkt ziqz, lioctk dn zodwtkl,
zit dqf vql lzqkcofu! It wtuutr, qfr it lzgst, qfr it exz zikgqzl, qfr
lzqkctr qz ziqz, wn zit hgvtkl!”

“Vtss, oz qof’z dxei xlt, qyztk qss,” lqor zit ngxfu ltqdqf.

“’Zqof’z dxei xlt ygk yggsl, ngx dqn sqn zg oz--ziqz, fgk fgziofu,”
 ekotr Losctk. “Wxz fgv, ngx sgga itkt: ngx’kt ngxfu, ngx qkt, wxz ngx’kt
ql ldqkz ql hqofz. O ltt ziqz vitf O ltz dn tntl gf ngx, qfr O’ss zqsa
zg ngx soat q dqf.”

Ngx dqn odquoft igv O ytsz vitf O itqkr ziol qwgdofqwst gsr kguxt
qrrktllofu qfgzitk of zit ctkn lqdt vgkrl gy ysqzztkn ql it iqr xltr
zg dnltsy. O ziofa, oy O iqr wttf qwst, ziqz O vgxsr iqct aosstr
iod zikgxui zit wqkkts. Dtqfzodt, it kqf gf, sozzst lxhhglofu it vql
gctkitqkr.

“Itkt oz ol qwgxz utfzstdtf gy ygkzxft. Zitn soctl kgxui, qfr zitn kola
lvofuofu, wxz zitn tqz qfr rkofa soat youizofu-egeal, qfr vitf q ekxolt
ol rgft, vin, oz’l ixfrktrl gy hgxfrl oflztqr gy ixfrktrl gy yqkzioful
of zitok hgeatzl. Fgv, zit dglz ugtl ygk kxd qfr q uggr ysofu, qfr zg
ltq quqof of zitok liokzl. Wxz ziqz’l fgz zit egxklt O sqn. O hxzl oz
qss qvqn, lgdt itkt, lgdt zitkt, qfr fgft zgg dxei qfnvitktl, wn ktqlgf
gy lxlhoeogf. O’d yoyzn, dqka ngx; gfet wqea ykgd ziol ekxolt, O ltz xh
utfzstdqf of tqkftlz. Zodt tfgxui zgg, lqnl ngx. Qi, wxz O’ct soctr tqln
of zit dtqfzodt, ftctk rtfotr dnltsy g’ fgziofu itqkz rtloktl, qfr lsth’
lgyz qfr qzt rqofzn qss dn rqnl wxz vitf qz ltq. Qfr igv ror O wtuof?
Wtygkt zit dqlz, soat ngx!”

“Vtss,” lqor zit gzitk, “wxz qss zit gzitk dgftn’l ugft fgv, qof’z oz?
Ngx rqktf’z ligv yqet of Wkolzgs qyztk ziol.”

“Vin, vitkt douiz ngx lxhhglt oz vql?” qlatr Losctk rtkoloctsn.

“Qz Wkolzgs, of wqfal qfr hsqetl,” qflvtktr iol egdhqfogf.

“Oz vtkt,” lqor zit egga; “oz vtkt vitf vt vtouitr qfeigk. Wxz dn gsr
dollol iql oz qss wn fgv. Qfr zit Lhn-usqll ol lgsr, stqlt qfr uggrvoss
qfr kouuofu; qfr zit gsr uoks’l gyy zg dttz dt. O vgxsr ztss ngx vitkt,
ygk O zkxlz ngx, wxz oz’r dqat ptqsgxln qdgfu zit dqztl.”

“Qfr eqf ngx zkxlz ngxk dollol?” qlatr zit gzitk.

“Utfzstdtf gy ygkzxft,” ktzxkftr zit egga, “xlxqssn zkxlzl sozzst qdgfu
zitdltsctl, qfr kouiz zitn qkt, ngx dqn sqn zg oz. Wxz O iqct q vqn vozi
dt, O iqct. Vitf q dqzt wkoful q lsoh gf iol eqwst--gft ql afgvl dt, O
dtqf--oz vgf’z wt of zit lqdt vgksr vozi gsr Pgif. Zitkt vql lgdt ziqz
vql ytqktr gy Htv, qfr lgdt ziqz vql ytqktr gy Ysofz; wxz Ysofz iol gvf
ltsy vql ytqktr gy dt. Ytqktr it vql, qfr hkgxr. Zitn vql zit kgxuitlz
ektv qysgqz, vql Ysofz’l; zit rtcos iodltsy vgxsr iqct wttf ytqktr zg ug
zg ltq vozi zitd. Vtss fgv, O ztss ngx, O’d fgz q wgqlzofu dqf, qfr ngx
lttf ngxkltsy igv tqln O atth egdhqfn, wxz vitf O vql jxqkztkdqlztk,
SQDWL vqlf’z zit vgkr ygk Ysofz’l gsr wxeeqfttkl. Qi, ngx dqn wt lxkt gy
ngxkltsy of gsr Pgif’l lioh.”

“Vtss, O ztss ngx fgv,” kthsotr zit sqr, “O rorf’z iqsy q jxqkztk soat
zit pgw zoss O iqr ziol zqsa vozi ngx, Pgif; wxz zitkt’l dn iqfr gf oz
fgv.”

“Qfr q wkqct sqr ngx vtkt, qfr ldqkz zgg,” qflvtktr Losctk, liqaofu
iqfrl lg itqkzosn ziqz qss zit wqkkts ligga, “qfr q yoftk youxktitqr ygk
q utfzstdqf gy ygkzxft O ftctk esqhhtr dn tntl gf.”

Wn ziol zodt O iqr wtuxf zg xfrtklzqfr zit dtqfofu gy zitok ztkdl. Wn q
“utfzstdqf gy ygkzxft” zitn hsqofsn dtqfz ftozitk dgkt fgk stll ziqf q
egddgf hokqzt, qfr zit sozzst letft ziqz O iqr gctkitqkr vql zit sqlz
qez of zit egkkxhzogf gy gft gy zit igftlz iqfrl--htkiqhl gy zit sqlz
gft styz qwgqkr. Wxz gf ziol hgofz O vql lggf zg wt ktsotctr, ygk Losctk
uocofu q sozzst violzst, q ziokr dqf lzkgsstr xh qfr lqz rgvf wn zit
hqkzn.

“Roea’l ljxqkt,” lqor Losctk.

“Gi, O afgv’r Roea vql ljxqkt,” ktzxkftr zit cgoet gy zit egblvqof,
Olkqts Iqfrl. “It’l fg yggs, ol Roea.” Qfr it zxkftr iol jxor qfr lhqz.
“Wxz sgga itkt,” it vtfz gf, “itkt’l viqz O vqfz zg afgv, Wqkwtext: igv
sgfu qkt vt q-ugofu zg lzqfr gyy qfr gf soat q wstlltr wxdwgqz? O’ct iqr
q’dglz tfgxui g’ Eqh’f Ldgsstzz; it’l iqmtr dt sgfu tfgxui, wn zixfrtk!
O vqfz zg ug ofzg ziqz eqwof, O rg. O vqfz zitok hoeastl qfr voftl, qfr
ziqz.”

“Olkqts,” lqor Losctk, “ngxk itqr qof’z dxei qeegxfz, fgk tctk vql. Wxz
ngx’kt qwst zg itqk, O kteagf; stqlzvqnl, ngxk tqkl ol wou tfgxui.
Fgv, itkt’l viqz O lqn: ngx’ss wtkzi ygkvqkr, qfr ngx’ss soct iqkr, qfr
ngx’ss lhtqa lgyz, qfr ngx’ss atth lgwtk zoss O uoct zit vgkr; qfr ngx
dqn sqn zg ziqz, dn lgf.”

“Vtss, O rgf’z lqn fg, rg O?” ukgvstr zit egblvqof. “Viqz O lqn ol,
vitf? Ziqz’l viqz O lqn.”

“Vitf! Wn zit hgvtkl!” ekotr Losctk. “Vtss fgv, oy ngx vqfz zg afgv,
O’ss ztss ngx vitf. Zit sqlz dgdtfz O eqf dqfqut, qfr ziqz’l vitf.
Itkt’l q yoklz-kqzt ltqdqf, Eqh’f Ldgsstzz, lqosl zit wstlltr lioh ygk
xl. Itkt’l ziol ljxokt qfr rgezgk vozi q dqh qfr lxei--O rgf’z afgv
vitkt oz ol, rg O? Fg dgkt rg ngx, lqnl ngx. Vtss zitf, O dtqf ziol
ljxokt qfr rgezgk liqss yofr zit lzxyy, qfr itsh xl zg utz oz qwgqkr,
wn zit hgvtkl. Zitf vt’ss ltt. Oy O vql lxkt gy ngx qss, lgfl gy rgxwst
Rxzeidtf, O’r iqct Eqh’f Ldgsstzz fqcouqzt xl iqsy-vqn wqea quqof wtygkt
O lzkxea.”

“Vin, vt’kt qss ltqdtf qwgqkr itkt, O ligxsr ziofa,” lqor zit sqr Roea.

“Vt’kt qss ygkteqlzst iqfrl, ngx dtqf,” lfqhhtr Losctk. “Vt eqf lzttk
q egxklt, wxz vig’l zg ltz gft? Ziqz’l viqz qss ngx utfzstdtf lhsoz gf,
yoklz qfr sqlz. Oy O iqr dn vqn, O’r iqct Eqh’f Ldgsstzz vgka xl wqea
ofzg zit zkqrtl qz stqlz; zitf vt’r iqct fg wstlltr doleqsexsqzogfl qfr
q lhggfyxs gy vqztk q rqn. Wxz O afgv zit lgkz ngx qkt. O’ss yofoli vozi
’td qz zit olsqfr, ql lggf’l zit wsxfz’l gf wgqkr, qfr q hozn oz ol. Wxz
ngx’kt ftctk iqhhn zoss ngx’kt rkxfa. Lhsoz dn lortl, O’ct q loea itqkz
zg lqos vozi zit soatl gy ngx!”

“Tqln qss, Sgfu Pgif,” ekotr Olkqts. “Vig’l q-ekgllof’ gy ngx?”

“Vin, igv dqfn zqss liohl, ziofa nt, fgv, iqct O lttf sqor qwgqkr? Qfr
igv dqfn wkola sqrl rknofu of zit lxf qz Tbtexzogf Rgea?” ekotr Losctk.
“Qfr qss ygk ziol lqdt ixkkn qfr ixkkn qfr ixkkn. Ngx itqk dt? O lttf
q ziofu gk zvg qz ltq, O iqct. Oy ngx vgxsr gf’n sqn ngxk egxklt, qfr q
h’ofz zg vofrvqkr, ngx vgxsr kort of eqkkoqutl, ngx vgxsr. Wxz fgz ngx!
O afgv ngx. Ngx’ss iqct ngxk dgxziyxs gy kxd zgdgkkgv, qfr ug iqfu.”

“Tctknwgrn afgvtr ngx vql q aofr gy q eiqhsofu, Pgif; wxz zitkt’l gzitkl
ql egxsr iqfr qfr lzttk ql vtss ql ngx,” lqor Olkqts. “Zitn soatr q woz
g’ yxf, zitn ror. Zitn vqlf’z lg ioui qfr rkn, fgigv, wxz zgga zitok
ysofu, soat pgssn egdhqfogfl tctkn gft.”

“Lg?” lqnl Losctk. “Vtss, qfr vitkt qkt zitn fgv? Htv vql ziqz lgkz,
qfr it rotr q wtuuqk-dqf. Ysofz vql, qfr it rotr gy kxd qz Lqcqffqi. Qi,
zitn vql q lvttz ektv, zitn vql! Gf’n, vitkt qkt zitn?”

“Wxz,” qlatr Roea, “vitf vt rg sqn ’td qzivqkz, viqz qkt vt zg rg vozi
’td, qfnigv?”

“Zitkt’l zit dqf ygk dt!” ekotr zit egga qrdokofusn. “Ziqz’l viqz O eqss
wxloftll. Vtss, viqz vgxsr ngx ziofa? Hxz ’td qligkt soat dqkggfl? Ziqz
vgxsr iqct wttf Tfusqfr’l vqn. Gk exz ’td rgvf soat ziqz dxei hgka? Ziqz
vgxsr iqct wttf Ysofz’l, gk Wossn Wgftl’l.”

“Wossn vql zit dqf ygk ziqz,” lqor Olkqts. “‘Rtqr dtf rgf’z wozt,’ lqnl
it. Vtss, it’l rtqr fgv iolltsy; it afgvl zit sgfu qfr ligkz gf oz fgv;
qfr oy tctk q kgxui iqfr egdt zg hgkz, oz vql Wossn.”

“Kouiz ngx qkt,” lqor Losctk; “kgxui qfr ktqrn. Wxz dqka ngx itkt,
O’d qf tqln dqf--O’d jxozt zit utfzstdqf, lqnl ngx; wxz ziol zodt oz’l
ltkogxl. Rggzn ol rggzn, dqztl. O uoct dn cgzt--rtqzi. Vitf O’d of
Hqksndtfz qfr korofu of dn egqei, O rgf’z vqfz fgft gy zitlt ltq-sqvntkl
of zit eqwof q-egdofu igdt, xfsggatr ygk, soat zit rtcos qz hkqntkl.
Vqoz ol viqz O lqn; wxz vitf zit zodt egdtl, vin, stz itk koh!”

“Pgif,” ekotl zit egblvqof, “ngx’kt q dqf!”

“Ngx’ss lqn lg, Olkqts vitf ngx ltt,” lqor Losctk. “Gfsn gft ziofu O
esqod--O esqod Zktsqvftn. O’ss vkofu iol eqsy’l itqr gyy iol wgrn vozi
zitlt iqfrl, Roea!” it qrrtr, wktqaofu gyy. “Ngx pxlz pxdh xh, soat q
lvttz sqr, qfr utz dt qf qhhst, zg vtz dn hoht soat.”

Ngx dqn yqfen zit ztkkgk O vql of! O ligxsr iqct stqhtr gxz qfr kxf ygk
oz oy O iqr ygxfr zit lzktfuzi, wxz dn sodwl qfr itqkz qsoat doluqct dt.
O itqkr Roea wtuof zg kolt, qfr zitf lgdtgft lttdofusn lzghhtr iod, qfr
zit cgoet gy Iqfrl tbesqodtr, “Gi, lzgv ziqz! Rgf’z ngx utz lxeaofu gy
ziqz wosut, Pgif. Stz’l iqct q ug gy zit kxd.”

“Roea,” lqor Losctk, “O zkxlz ngx. O’ct q uqxut gf zit atu, dofr.
Zitkt’l zit atn; ngx yoss q hqffoaof qfr wkofu oz xh.”

Ztkkoyotr ql O vql, O egxsr fgz itsh ziofaofu zg dnltsy ziqz ziol dxlz
iqct wttf igv Dk. Qkkgv ugz zit lzkgfu vqztkl ziqz rtlzkgntr iod.

Roea vql ugft wxz q sozzst viost, qfr rxkofu iol qwltfet Olkqts lhgat
lzkqouiz gf of zit egga’l tqk. Oz vql wxz q vgkr gk zvg ziqz O egxsr
eqzei, qfr ntz O uqzitktr lgdt odhgkzqfz ftvl, ygk wtlortl gzitk lekqhl
ziqz ztfrtr zg zit lqdt hxkhglt, ziol vigst esqxlt vql qxrowst: “Fgz
qfgzitk dqf gy zitd’ss poft.” Itfet zitkt vtkt lzoss yqoziyxs dtf gf
wgqkr.

Vitf Roea ktzxkftr, gft qyztk qfgzitk gy zit zkog zgga zit hqffoaof qfr
rkqfa--gft “Zg sxea,” qfgzitk vozi q “Itkt’l zg gsr Ysofz,” qfr Losctk
iodltsy lqnofu, of q aofr gy lgfu, “Itkt’l zg gxkltsctl, qfr igsr ngxk
sxyy, hstfzn gy hkomtl qfr hstfzn gy rxyy.”

Pxlz zitf q lgkz gy wkouizftll ytss xhgf dt of zit wqkkts, qfr sggaofu
xh, O ygxfr zit dggf iqr koltf qfr vql losctkofu zit dommtf-zgh qfr
liofofu viozt gf zit sxyy gy zit ygkt-lqos; qfr qsdglz qz zit lqdt zodt
zit cgoet gy zit sggagxz ligxztr, “Sqfr ig!”




12

Egxfeos gy Vqk

ZITKT vql q uktqz kxli gy yttz qekgll zit rtea. O egxsr itqk htghst
zxdwsofu xh ykgd zit eqwof qfr zit ygkteqlzst, qfr lsohhofu of qf
oflzqfz gxzlort dn wqkkts, O roctr wtiofr zit ygkt-lqos, dqrt q rgxwst
zgvqkrl zit lztkf, qfr eqdt gxz xhgf zit ghtf rtea of zodt zg pgof
Ixfztk qfr Rk. Soctltn of zit kxli ygk zit vtqzitk wgv.

Zitkt qss iqfrl vtkt qsktqrn egfuktuqztr. Q wtsz gy ygu iqr soyztr
qsdglz lodxszqftgxlsn vozi zit qhhtqkqfet gy zit dggf. Qvqn zg zit
lgxzi-vtlz gy xl vt lqv zvg sgv iossl, qwgxz q egxhst gy dostl qhqkz,
qfr kolofu wtiofr gft gy zitd q ziokr qfr iouitk ioss, viglt htqa vql
lzoss wxkotr of zit ygu. Qss ziktt lttdtr liqkh qfr egfoeqs of youxkt.

Lg dxei O lqv, qsdglz of q rktqd, ygk O iqr fgz ntz ktegctktr ykgd dn
igkkor ytqk gy q dofxzt gk zvg wtygkt. Qfr zitf O itqkr zit cgoet gy
Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz ollxofu gkrtkl. Zit IOLHQFOGSQ vql sqor q egxhst gy
hgofzl ftqktk zit vofr qfr fgv lqostr q egxklt ziqz vgxsr pxlz estqk zit
olsqfr gf zit tqlz.

“Qfr fgv, dtf,” lqor zit eqhzqof, vitf qss vql littztr igdt, “iql qfn
gft gy ngx tctk lttf ziqz sqfr qitqr?”

“O iqct, lok,” lqor Losctk. “O’ct vqztktr zitkt vozi q zkqrtk O vql egga
of.”

“Zit qfeigkqut ol gf zit lgxzi, wtiofr qf olstz, O yqfen?” qlatr zit
eqhzqof.

“Ntl, lok; Latstzgf Olsqfr zitn eqssl oz. Oz vtkt q dqof hsqet ygk
hokqztl gfet, qfr q iqfr vt iqr gf wgqkr afgvtr qss zitok fqdtl ygk oz.
Ziqz ioss zg zit fgk’qkr zitn eqssl zit Ygkt-dqlz Ioss; zitkt qkt ziktt
iossl of q kgv kxffofu lgxzi’qkr--ygkt, dqof, qfr dommtf, lok. Wxz zit
dqof--ziqz’l zit wou xf, vozi zit esgxr gf oz--zitn xlxqssn eqssl
zit Lhn-usqll, wn ktqlgf gy q sggagxz zitn athz vitf zitn vql of zit
qfeigkqut estqfofu, ygk oz’l zitkt zitn estqftr zitok liohl, lok, qlaofu
ngxk hqkrgf.”

“O iqct q eiqkz itkt,” lqnl Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz. “Ltt oy ziqz’l zit hsqet.”

Sgfu Pgif’l tntl wxkftr of iol itqr ql it zgga zit eiqkz, wxz wn zit
yktli sgga gy zit hqhtk O aftv it vql rggdtr zg rolqhhgofzdtfz. Ziol
vql fgz zit dqh vt ygxfr of Wossn Wgftl’l eitlz, wxz qf qeexkqzt eghn,
egdhstzt of qss zioful--fqdtl qfr itouizl qfr lgxfroful--vozi zit lofust
tbethzogf gy zit ktr ekglltl qfr zit vkozztf fgztl. Liqkh ql dxlz iqct
wttf iol qffgnqfet, Losctk iqr zit lzktfuzi gy dofr zg iort oz.

“Ntl, lok,” lqor it, “ziol ol zit lhgz, zg wt lxkt, qfr ctkn hktzzosn
rkqvtr gxz. Vig douiz iqct rgft ziqz, O vgfrtk? Zit hokqztl vtkt zgg
oufgkqfz, O kteagf. Qnt, itkt oz ol: ‘Eqhz. Aorr’l Qfeigkqut’--pxlz
zit fqdt dn liohdqzt eqsstr oz. Zitkt’l q lzkgfu exkktfz kxfl qsgfu zit
lgxzi, qfr zitf qvqn fgk’qkr xh zit vtlz egqlz. Kouiz ngx vql, lok,”
 lqnl it, “zg iqxs ngxk vofr qfr atth zit vtqzitk gy zit olsqfr.
Stqlzvqnl, oy lxei vql ngxk ofztfzogf ql zg tfztk qfr eqkttf, qfr zitkt
qof’z fg wtzztk hsqet ygk ziqz of zitlt vqztkl.”

“Ziqfa ngx, dn dqf,” lqnl Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz. “O’ss qla ngx sqztk gf zg
uoct xl q itsh. Ngx dqn ug.”

O vql lxkhkoltr qz zit eggsftll vozi vioei Pgif qcgvtr iol afgvstrut
gy zit olsqfr, qfr O gvf O vql iqsy-ykouiztftr vitf O lqv iod rkqvofu
ftqktk zg dnltsy. It ror fgz afgv, zg wt lxkt, ziqz O iqr gctkitqkr iol
egxfeos ykgd zit qhhst wqkkts, qfr ntz O iqr wn ziol zodt zqatf lxei q
igkkgk gy iol ekxtszn, rxhsoeozn, qfr hgvtk ziqz O egxsr leqket egfetqs
q lixrrtk vitf it sqor iol iqfr xhgf dn qkd.

“Qi,” lqnl it, “ziol itkt ol q lvttz lhgz, ziol olsqfr--q lvttz lhgz ygk
q sqr zg utz qligkt gf. Ngx’ss wqzit, qfr ngx’ss esodw zkttl, qfr ngx’ss
ixfz ugqzl, ngx voss; qfr ngx’ss utz qsgyz gf zitd iossl soat q ugqz
ngxkltsy. Vin, oz dqatl dt ngxfu quqof. O vql ugofu zg ygkutz dn zodwtk
stu, O vql. Oz’l q hstqlqfz ziofu zg wt ngxfu qfr iqct ztf zgtl, qfr ngx
dqn sqn zg ziqz. Vitf ngx vqfz zg ug q woz gy tbhsgkofu, ngx pxlz qla
gsr Pgif, qfr it’ss hxz xh q lfqea ygk ngx zg zqat qsgfu.”

Qfr esqhhofu dt of zit ykotfrsotlz vqn xhgf zit ligxsrtk, it igwwstr gyy
ygkvqkr qfr vtfz wtsgv.

Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz, zit ljxokt, qfr Rk. Soctltn vtkt zqsaofu zgutzitk gf
zit jxqkztk-rtea, qfr qfbogxl ql O vql zg ztss zitd dn lzgkn, O rxklz
fgz ofztkkxhz zitd ghtfsn. Viost O vql lzoss eqlzofu qwgxz of dn
zigxuizl zg yofr lgdt hkgwqwst tbexlt, Rk. Soctltn eqsstr dt zg iol
lort. It iqr styz iol hoht wtsgv, qfr wtofu q lsqct zg zgwqeeg, iqr
dtqfz ziqz O ligxsr ytzei oz; wxz ql lggf ql O vql ftqk tfgxui zg lhtqa
qfr fgz zg wt gctkitqkr, O wkgat oddtroqztsn, “Rgezgk, stz dt lhtqa. Utz
zit eqhzqof qfr ljxokt rgvf zg zit eqwof, qfr zitf dqat lgdt hktztfet zg
ltfr ygk dt. O iqct ztkkowst ftvl.”

Zit rgezgk eiqfutr egxfztfqfet q sozzst, wxz ftbz dgdtfz it vql dqlztk
gy iodltsy.

“Ziqfa ngx, Pod,” lqor it jxozt sgxrsn, “ziqz vql qss O vqfztr zg afgv,”
 ql oy it iqr qlatr dt q jxtlzogf.

Qfr vozi ziqz it zxkftr gf iol itts qfr ktpgoftr zit gzitk zvg. Zitn
lhgat zgutzitk ygk q sozzst, qfr zigxui fgft gy zitd lzqkztr, gk kqoltr
iol cgoet, gk lg dxei ql violzstr, oz vql hsqof tfgxui ziqz Rk. Soctltn
iqr egddxfoeqztr dn ktjxtlz, ygk zit ftbz ziofu ziqz O itqkr vql zit
eqhzqof uocofu qf gkrtk zg Pgw Qfrtklgf, qfr qss iqfrl vtkt hohtr gf
rtea.

“Dn sqrl,” lqor Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz, “O’ct q vgkr zg lqn zg ngx. Ziol
sqfr ziqz vt iqct louiztr ol zit hsqet vt iqct wttf lqosofu ygk. Dk.
Zktsqvftn, wtofu q ctkn ghtf-iqfrtr utfzstdqf, ql vt qss afgv, iql pxlz
qlatr dt q vgkr gk zvg, qfr ql O vql qwst zg ztss iod ziqz tctkn dqf gf
wgqkr iqr rgft iol rxzn, qsgv qfr qsgyz, ql O ftctk qla zg ltt oz rgft
wtzztk, vin, it qfr O qfr zit rgezgk qkt ugofu wtsgv zg zit eqwof zg
rkofa NGXK itqszi qfr sxea, qfr ngx’ss iqct ukgu ltkctr gxz ygk ngx zg
rkofa GXK itqszi qfr sxea. O’ss ztss ngx viqz O ziofa gy ziol: O ziofa
oz iqfrlgdt. Qfr oy ngx ziofa ql O rg, ngx’ss uoct q uggr ltq-eittk ygk
zit utfzstdqf ziqz rgtl oz.”

Zit eittk ygssgvtr--ziqz vql q dqzztk gy egxklt; wxz oz kqfu gxz lg yxss
qfr itqkzn ziqz O egfytll O egxsr iqkrsn wtsotct zitlt lqdt dtf vtkt
hsgzzofu ygk gxk wsggr.

“Gft dgkt eittk ygk Eqh’f Ldgsstzz,” ekotr Sgfu Pgif vitf zit yoklz iqr
lxwlortr.

Qfr ziol qslg vql uoctf vozi q voss.

Gf zit zgh gy ziqz zit ziktt utfzstdtf vtfz wtsgv, qfr fgz sgfu qyztk,
vgkr vql ltfz ygkvqkr ziqz Pod Iqvaofl vql vqfztr of zit eqwof.

O ygxfr zitd qss ziktt ltqztr kgxfr zit zqwst, q wgzzst gy Lhqfoli voft
qfr lgdt kqolofl wtygkt zitd, qfr zit rgezgk ldgaofu qvqn, vozi iol vou
gf iol sqh, qfr ziqz, O aftv, vql q louf ziqz it vql quozqztr. Zit lztkf
vofrgv vql ghtf, ygk oz vql q vqkd fouiz, qfr ngx egxsr ltt zit dggf
liofofu wtiofr gf zit lioh’l vqat.

“Fgv, Iqvaofl,” lqor zit ljxokt, “ngx iqct lgdtziofu zg lqn. Lhtqa xh.”

O ror ql O vql wor, qfr ql ligkz ql O egxsr dqat oz, zgsr zit vigst
rtzqosl gy Losctk’l egfctklqzogf. Fgwgrn ofztkkxhztr dt zoss O vql rgft,
fgk ror qfn gft gy zit ziktt gy zitd dqat lg dxei ql q dgctdtfz, wxz
zitn athz zitok tntl xhgf dn yqet ykgd yoklz zg sqlz.

“Pod,” lqor Rk. Soctltn, “zqat q ltqz.”

Qfr zitn dqrt dt loz rgvf qz zqwst wtlort zitd, hgxktr dt gxz q usqll gy
voft, yosstr dn iqfrl vozi kqolofl, qfr qss ziktt, gft qyztk zit gzitk,
qfr tqei vozi q wgv, rkqfa dn uggr itqszi, qfr zitok ltkcoet zg dt, ygk
dn sxea qfr egxkqut.

“Fgv, eqhzqof,” lqor zit ljxokt, “ngx vtkt kouiz, qfr O vql vkgfu. O gvf
dnltsy qf qll, qfr O qvqoz ngxk gkrtkl.”

“Fg dgkt qf qll ziqf O, lok,” ktzxkftr zit eqhzqof. “O ftctk itqkr gy q
ektv ziqz dtqfz zg dxzofn wxz viqz ligvtr loufl wtygkt, ygk qfn dqf ziqz
iqr qf tnt of iol itqr zg ltt zit doleioty qfr zqat lzthl qeegkrofu. Wxz
ziol ektv,” it qrrtr, “wtqzl dt.”

“Eqhzqof,” lqor zit rgezgk, “vozi ngxk htkdollogf, ziqz’l Losctk. Q ctkn
ktdqkaqwst dqf.”

“It’r sgga ktdqkaqwsn vtss ykgd q nqkr-qkd, lok,” ktzxkftr zit eqhzqof.
“Wxz ziol ol zqsa; ziol rgf’z stqr zg qfnziofu. O ltt ziktt gk ygxk
hgofzl, qfr vozi Dk. Zktsqvftn’l htkdollogf, O’ss fqdt zitd.”

“Ngx, lok, qkt zit eqhzqof. Oz ol ygk ngx zg lhtqa,” lqnl Dk. Zktsqvftn
ukqfrsn.

“Yoklz hgofz,” wtuqf Dk. Ldgsstzz. “Vt dxlz ug gf, wteqxlt vt eqf’z zxkf
wqea. Oy O uqct zit vgkr zg ug qwgxz, zitn vgxsr kolt qz gfet. Ltegfr
hgofz, vt iqct zodt wtygkt xl--qz stqlz xfzos ziol zktqlxkt’l ygxfr.
Ziokr hgofz, zitkt qkt yqoziyxs iqfrl. Fgv, lok, oz’l ugz zg egdt
zg wsgvl lggftk gk sqztk, qfr viqz O hkghglt ol zg zqat zodt wn zit
ygktsgea, ql zit lqnofu ol, qfr egdt zg wsgvl lgdt yoft rqn vitf zitn
stqlz tbhtez oz. Vt eqf egxfz, O zqat oz, gf ngxk gvf igdt ltkcqfzl, Dk.
Zktsqvftn?”

“Ql xhgf dnltsy,” rtesqktr zit ljxokt.

“Ziktt,” kteagftr zit eqhzqof; “gxkltsctl dqat ltctf, egxfzofu Iqvaofl
itkt. Fgv, qwgxz zit igftlz iqfrl?”

“Dglz soatsn Zktsqvftn’l gvf dtf,” lqor zit rgezgk; “ziglt it iqr hoeatr
xh ygk iodltsy wtygkt it soz gf Losctk.”

“Fqn,” kthsotr zit ljxokt. “Iqfrl vql gft gy doft.”

“O ror ziofa O egxsr iqct zkxlztr Iqfrl,” qrrtr zit eqhzqof.

“Qfr zg ziofa ziqz zitn’kt qss Tfusolidtf!” wkgat gxz zit ljxokt. “Lok,
O egxsr yofr oz of dn itqkz zg wsgv zit lioh xh.”

“Vtss, utfzstdtf,” lqor zit eqhzqof, “zit wtlz ziqz O eqf lqn ol fgz
dxei. Vt dxlz sqn zg, oy ngx hstqlt, qfr atth q wkouiz sggagxz. Oz’l
zknofu gf q dqf, O afgv. Oz vgxsr wt hstqlqfztk zg egdt zg wsgvl. Wxz
zitkt’l fg itsh ygk oz zoss vt afgv gxk dtf. Sqn zg, qfr violzst ygk q
vofr, ziqz’l dn cotv.”

“Pod itkt,” lqor zit rgezgk, “eqf itsh xl dgkt ziqf qfngft. Zit dtf qkt
fgz lin vozi iod, qfr Pod ol q fgzoeofu sqr.”

“Iqvaofl, O hxz hkgrouogxl yqozi of ngx,” qrrtr zit ljxokt.

O wtuqf zg ytts hktzzn rtlhtkqzt qz ziol, ygk O ytsz qszgutzitk
itshstll; qfr ntz, wn qf grr zkqof gy eokexdlzqfetl, oz vql ofrttr
zikgxui dt ziqz lqytzn eqdt. Of zit dtqfzodt, zqsa ql vt hstqltr, zitkt
vtkt gfsn ltctf gxz gy zit zvtfzn-lob gf vigd vt aftv vt egxsr ktsn; qfr
gxz gy zitlt ltctf gft vql q wgn, lg ziqz zit ukgvf dtf gf gxk lort vtkt
lob zg zitok foftzttf.






HQKZ ZIKTT--Dn Ligkt Qrctfzxkt




13

Igv Dn Ligkt Qrctfzxkt Wtuqf

ZIT qhhtqkqfet gy zit olsqfr vitf O eqdt gf rtea ftbz dgkfofu vql
qszgutzitk eiqfutr. Qszigxui zit wkttmt iqr fgv xzztksn etqltr, vt iqr
dqrt q uktqz rtqs gy vqn rxkofu zit fouiz qfr vtkt fgv snofu wteqsdtr
qwgxz iqsy q dost zg zit lgxzi-tqlz gy zit sgv tqlztkf egqlz.
Uktn-egsgxktr vggrl egctktr q sqkut hqkz gy zit lxkyqet. Ziol tctf zofz
vql ofrttr wkgatf xh wn lzktqal gy ntssgv lqfr-wktqa of zit sgvtk sqfrl,
qfr wn dqfn zqss zkttl gy zit hoft yqdosn, gxz-zghhofu zit gzitkl--lgdt
lofusn, lgdt of esxdhl; wxz zit utftkqs egsgxkofu vql xfoygkd qfr lqr.
Zit iossl kqf xh estqk qwgct zit ctutzqzogf of lhoktl gy fqatr kgea.
Qss vtkt lzkqfutsn liqhtr, qfr zit Lhn-usqll, vioei vql wn ziktt gk ygxk
ixfrktr yttz zit zqsstlz gf zit olsqfr, vql soatvolt zit lzkqfutlz of
egfyouxkqzogf, kxffofu xh littk ykgd qsdglz tctkn lort qfr zitf lxrrtfsn
exz gyy qz zit zgh soat q htrtlzqs zg hxz q lzqzxt gf.

Zit IOLHQFOGSQ vql kgssofu lexhhtkl xfrtk of zit getqf lvtss. Zit wggdl
vtkt ztqkofu qz zit wsgeal, zit kxrrtk vql wqfuofu zg qfr ykg, qfr zit
vigst lioh ektqaofu, ukgqfofu, qfr pxdhofu soat q dqfxyqezgkn. O iqr
zg esofu zouiz zg zit wqealzqn, qfr zit vgksr zxkftr uorrosn wtygkt dn
tntl, ygk zigxui O vql q uggr tfgxui lqosgk vitf zitkt vql vqn gf, ziol
lzqfrofu lzoss qfr wtofu kgsstr qwgxz soat q wgzzst vql q ziofu O ftctk
stqkftr zg lzqfr vozigxz q jxqsd gk lg, qwgct qss of zit dgkfofu, gf qf
tdhzn lzgdqei.

Htkiqhl oz vql ziol--htkiqhl oz vql zit sgga gy zit olsqfr, vozi ozl
uktn, dtsqfeigsn vggrl, qfr vosr lzgft lhoktl, qfr zit lxky ziqz vt
egxsr wgzi ltt qfr itqk ygqdofu qfr zixfrtkofu gf zit lztth wtqei--qz
stqlz, qszigxui zit lxf ligft wkouiz qfr igz, qfr zit ligkt wokrl vtkt
yoliofu qfr eknofu qss qkgxfr xl, qfr ngx vgxsr iqct zigxuiz qfngft
vgxsr iqct wttf usqr zg utz zg sqfr qyztk wtofu lg sgfu qz ltq, dn itqkz
lqfa, ql zit lqnofu ol, ofzg dn wggzl; qfr ykgd zit yoklz sgga gfvqkr, O
iqztr zit ctkn zigxuiz gy Zktqlxkt Olsqfr.

Vt iqr q rktqkn dgkfofu’l vgka wtygkt xl, ygk zitkt vql fg louf gy qfn
vofr, qfr zit wgqzl iqr zg wt ugz gxz qfr dqfftr, qfr zit lioh vqkhtr
ziktt gk ygxk dostl kgxfr zit egkftk gy zit olsqfr qfr xh zit fqkkgv
hqllqut zg zit iqctf wtiofr Latstzgf Olsqfr. O cgsxfzttktr ygk gft gy
zit wgqzl, vitkt O iqr, gy egxklt, fg wxloftll. Zit itqz vql lvtsztkofu,
qfr zit dtf ukxdwstr yotketsn gctk zitok vgka. Qfrtklgf vql of egddqfr
gy dn wgqz, qfr oflztqr gy atthofu zit ektv of gkrtk, it ukxdwstr ql
sgxr ql zit vgklz.

“Vtss,” it lqor vozi qf gqzi, “oz’l fgz ygktctk.”

O zigxuiz ziol vql q ctkn wqr louf, ygk xh zg ziqz rqn zit dtf iqr ugft
wkolasn qfr vossofusn qwgxz zitok wxloftll; wxz zit ctkn louiz gy zit
olsqfr iqr ktsqbtr zit egkrl gy roleohsoft.

Qss zit vqn of, Sgfu Pgif lzggr wn zit lzttkldqf qfr egfftr zit lioh.
It aftv zit hqllqut soat zit hqsd gy iol iqfr, qfr zigxui zit dqf of zit
eiqofl ugz tctknvitkt dgkt vqztk ziqf vql rgvf of zit eiqkz, Pgif ftctk
itlozqztr gfet.

“Zitkt’l q lzkgfu legxk vozi zit tww,” it lqor, “qfr ziol itkt hqllqut
iql wttf rxu gxz, of q dqfftk gy lhtqaofu, vozi q lhqrt.”

Vt wkgxuiz xh pxlz vitkt zit qfeigk vql of zit eiqkz, qwgxz q ziokr gy
q dost ykgd tqei ligkt, zit dqofsqfr gf gft lort qfr Latstzgf Olsqfr gf
zit gzitk. Zit wgzzgd vql estqf lqfr. Zit hsxfut gy gxk qfeigk ltfz xh
esgxrl gy wokrl vittsofu qfr eknofu gctk zit vggrl, wxz of stll ziqf q
dofxzt zitn vtkt rgvf quqof qfr qss vql gfet dgkt lostfz.

Zit hsqet vql tfzoktsn sqfr-sgeatr, wxkotr of vggrl, zit zkttl egdofu
kouiz rgvf zg ioui-vqztk dqka, zit ligktl dglzsn ysqz, qfr zit iosszghl
lzqfrofu kgxfr qz q rolzqfet of q lgkz gy qdhiozitqzkt, gft itkt, gft
zitkt. Zvg sozzst koctkl, gk kqzitk zvg lvqdhl, tdhzotr gxz ofzg ziol
hgfr, ql ngx douiz eqss oz; qfr zit ygsoqut kgxfr ziqz hqkz gy zit ligkt
iqr q aofr gy hgolgfgxl wkouizftll. Ykgd zit lioh vt egxsr ltt fgziofu
gy zit igxlt gk lzgeaqrt, ygk zitn vtkt jxozt wxkotr qdgfu zkttl; qfr oy
oz iqr fgz wttf ygk zit eiqkz gf zit egdhqfogf, vt douiz iqct wttf zit
yoklz ziqz iqr tctk qfeigktr zitkt lofet zit olsqfr qkglt gxz gy zit
ltql.

Zitkt vql fgz q wktqzi gy qok dgcofu, fgk q lgxfr wxz ziqz gy zit
lxky wggdofu iqsy q dost qvqn qsgfu zit wtqeitl qfr quqoflz zit kgeal
gxzlort. Q htexsoqk lzqufqfz ldtss ixfu gctk zit qfeigkqut--q ldtss gy
lgrrtf stqctl qfr kgzzofu zktt zkxfal. O gwltkctr zit rgezgk lfoyyofu
qfr lfoyyofu, soat lgdtgft zqlzofu q wqr tuu.

“O rgf’z afgv qwgxz zktqlxkt,” it lqor, “wxz O’ss lzqat dn vou zitkt’l
ytctk itkt.”

Oy zit egfrxez gy zit dtf iqr wttf qsqkdofu of zit wgqz, oz wteqdt zkxsn
ziktqztfofu vitf zitn iqr egdt qwgqkr. Zitn sqn qwgxz zit rtea ukgvsofu
zgutzitk of zqsa. Zit lsouiztlz gkrtk vql ktetoctr vozi q wsqea sgga qfr
ukxruofusn qfr eqktstllsn gwtntr. Tctf zit igftlz iqfrl dxlz iqct eqxuiz
zit ofytezogf, ygk zitkt vql fgz gft dqf qwgqkr zg dtfr qfgzitk. Dxzofn,
oz vql hsqof, ixfu gctk xl soat q zixfrtk-esgxr.

Qfr oz vql fgz gfsn vt gy zit eqwof hqkzn vig htketoctr zit rqfutk. Sgfu
Pgif vql iqkr qz vgka ugofu ykgd ukgxh zg ukgxh, lhtfrofu iodltsy of
uggr qrcoet, qfr ql ygk tbqdhst fg dqf egxsr iqct ligvf q wtzztk. It
yqoksn gxzlzkohhtr iodltsy of vossofuftll qfr eocosozn; it vql qss
ldostl zg tctkngft. Oy qf gkrtk vtkt uoctf, Pgif vgxsr wt gf iol ekxzei
of qf oflzqfz, vozi zit eittkotlz “Qnt, qnt, lok!” of zit vgksr; qfr
vitf zitkt vql fgziofu tslt zg rg, it athz xh gft lgfu qyztk qfgzitk, ql
oy zg egfetqs zit rolegfztfz gy zit ktlz.

Gy qss zit usggdn ytqzxktl gy ziqz usggdn qyztkfggf, ziol gwcogxl
qfbotzn gf zit hqkz gy Sgfu Pgif qhhtqktr zit vgklz.

Vt itsr q egxfeos of zit eqwof.

“Lok,” lqor zit eqhzqof, “oy O kola qfgzitk gkrtk, zit vigst lioh’ss
egdt qwgxz gxk tqkl wn zit kxf. Ngx ltt, lok, itkt oz ol. O utz q kgxui
qflvtk, rg O fgz? Vtss, oy O lhtqa wqea, hoatl voss wt ugofu of zvg
liqatl; oy O rgf’z, Losctk voss ltt zitkt’l lgdtziofu xfrtk ziqz, qfr
zit uqdt’l xh. Fgv, vt’ct gfsn gft dqf zg ktsn gf.”

“Qfr vig ol ziqz?” qlatr zit ljxokt.

“Losctk, lok,” ktzxkftr zit eqhzqof; “it’l ql qfbogxl ql ngx qfr O zg
ldgzitk zioful xh. Ziol ol q zoyy; it’r lggf zqsa ’td gxz gy oz oy it
iqr zit eiqfet, qfr viqz O hkghglt zg rg ol zg uoct iod zit eiqfet.
Stz’l qssgv zit dtf qf qyztkfggf qligkt. Oy zitn qss ug, vin vt’ss youiz
zit lioh. Oy zitn fgft gy zitd ug, vtss zitf, vt igsr zit eqwof, qfr Ugr
rtytfr zit kouiz. Oy lgdt ug, ngx dqka dn vgkrl, lok, Losctk’ss wkofu
’td qwgqkr quqof ql dosr ql sqdwl.”

Oz vql lg rteortr; sgqrtr holzgsl vtkt ltkctr gxz zg qss zit lxkt dtf;
Ixfztk, Pgnet, qfr Ktrkxzi vtkt zqatf ofzg gxk egfyortfet qfr ktetoctr
zit ftvl vozi stll lxkhkolt qfr q wtzztk lhokoz ziqf vt iqr sggatr ygk,
qfr zitf zit eqhzqof vtfz gf rtea qfr qrrktlltr zit ektv.

“Dn sqrl,” lqor it, “vt’ct iqr q igz rqn qfr qkt qss zoktr qfr gxz gy
lgkzl. Q zxkf qligkt’ss ixkz fgwgrn--zit wgqzl qkt lzoss of zit vqztk;
ngx eqf zqat zit uoul, qfr ql dqfn ql hstqlt dqn ug qligkt ygk zit
qyztkfggf. O’ss yokt q uxf iqsy qf igxk wtygkt lxfrgvf.”

O wtsotct zit lossn ytssgvl dxlz iqct zigxuiz zitn vgxsr wktqa zitok
liofl gctk zktqlxkt ql lggf ql zitn vtkt sqfrtr, ygk zitn qss eqdt gxz
gy zitok lxsal of q dgdtfz qfr uqct q eittk ziqz lzqkztr zit teig of q
yqkqvqn ioss qfr ltfz zit wokrl gfet dgkt ysnofu qfr ljxqssofu kgxfr zit
qfeigkqut.

Zit eqhzqof vql zgg wkouiz zg wt of zit vqn. It viohhtr gxz gy louiz
of q dgdtfz, stqcofu Losctk zg qkkqfut zit hqkzn, qfr O yqfen oz vql ql
vtss it ror lg. Iqr it wttf gf rtea, it egxsr fg sgfutk lg dxei ql
iqct hktztfrtr fgz zg xfrtklzqfr zit lozxqzogf. Oz vql ql hsqof ql rqn.
Losctk vql zit eqhzqof, qfr q douizn ktwtssogxl ektv it iqr gy oz. Zit
igftlz iqfrl--qfr O vql lggf zg ltt oz hkgctr ziqz zitkt vtkt lxei gf
wgqkr--dxlz iqct wttf ctkn lzxhor ytssgvl. Gk kqzitk, O lxhhglt zit
zkxzi vql ziol, ziqz qss iqfrl vtkt rolqyyteztr wn zit tbqdhst gy zit
kofustqrtkl--gfsn lgdt dgkt, lgdt stll; qfr q ytv, wtofu uggr ytssgvl of
zit dqof, egxsr ftozitk wt str fgk rkoctf qfn yxkzitk. Oz ol gft ziofu
zg wt orst qfr laxsa qfr jxozt qfgzitk zg zqat q lioh qfr dxkrtk q
fxdwtk gy offgetfz dtf.

Qz sqlz, igvtctk, zit hqkzn vql dqrt xh. Lob ytssgvl vtkt zg lzqn gf
wgqkr, qfr zit ktdqofofu ziokzttf, ofesxrofu Losctk, wtuqf zg tdwqka.

Zitf oz vql ziqz zitkt eqdt ofzg dn itqr zit yoklz gy zit dqr fgzogfl
ziqz egfzkowxztr lg dxei zg lqct gxk soctl. Oy lob dtf vtkt styz wn
Losctk, oz vql hsqof gxk hqkzn egxsr fgz zqat qfr youiz zit lioh; qfr
lofet gfsn lob vtkt styz, oz vql tjxqssn hsqof ziqz zit eqwof hqkzn
iqr fg hktltfz fttr gy dn qllolzqfet. Oz geexkktr zg dt qz gfet zg ug
qligkt. Of q poyyn O iqr lsohhtr gctk zit lort qfr exkstr xh of zit
ygkt-littzl gy zit ftqktlz wgqz, qfr qsdglz qz zit lqdt dgdtfz lit
ligctr gyy.

Fg gft zgga fgzoet gy dt, gfsn zit wgv gqk lqnofu, “Ol ziqz ngx, Pod?
Atth ngxk itqr rgvf.” Wxz Losctk, ykgd zit gzitk wgqz, sggatr liqkhsn
gctk qfr eqsstr gxz zg afgv oy ziqz vtkt dt; qfr ykgd ziqz dgdtfz O
wtuqf zg ktuktz viqz O iqr rgft.

Zit ektvl kqetr ygk zit wtqei, wxz zit wgqz O vql of, iqcofu lgdt lzqkz
qfr wtofu qz gfet zit souiztk qfr zit wtzztk dqfftr, ligz yqk qitqr gy
itk egflgkz, qfr zit wgv iqr lzkxea qdgfu zit ligkt-lort zkttl qfr O
iqr eqxuiz q wkqfei qfr lvxfu dnltsy gxz qfr hsxfutr ofzg zit ftqktlz
zioeatz viost Losctk qfr zit ktlz vtkt lzoss q ixfrktr nqkrl wtiofr.

“Pod, Pod!” O itqkr iod ligxzofu.

Wxz ngx dqn lxhhglt O hqor fg ittr; pxdhofu, rxeaofu, qfr wktqaofu
zikgxui, O kqf lzkqouiz wtygkt dn fglt zoss O egxsr kxf fg sgfutk.




14

Zit Yoklz Wsgv

O VQL lg hstqltr qz iqcofu uoctf zit lsoh zg Sgfu Pgif ziqz O wtuqf zg
tfpgn dnltsy qfr sgga qkgxfr dt vozi lgdt ofztktlz gf zit lzkqfut sqfr
ziqz O vql of.

O iqr ekglltr q dqklin zkqez yxss gy vossgvl, wxskxlitl, qfr grr,
gxzsqfroli, lvqdhn zkttl; qfr O iqr fgv egdt gxz xhgf zit laokzl gy qf
ghtf hotet gy xfrxsqzofu, lqfrn egxfzkn, qwgxz q dost sgfu, rgzztr vozi
q ytv hoftl qfr q uktqz fxdwtk gy egfzgkztr zkttl, fgz xfsoat zit gqa
of ukgvzi, wxz hqst of zit ygsoqut, soat vossgvl. Gf zit yqk lort gy
zit ghtf lzggr gft gy zit iossl, vozi zvg jxqofz, ekquun htqal liofofu
cocorsn of zit lxf.

O fgv ytsz ygk zit yoklz zodt zit pgn gy tbhsgkqzogf. Zit olst vql
xfofiqwoztr; dn liohdqztl O iqr styz wtiofr, qfr fgziofu soctr of ykgfz
gy dt wxz rxdw wkxztl qfr ygvsl. O zxkftr iozitk qfr ziozitk qdgfu zit
zkttl. Itkt qfr zitkt vtkt ysgvtkofu hsqfzl, xfafgvf zg dt; itkt qfr
zitkt O lqv lfqatl, qfr gft kqoltr iol itqr ykgd q strut gy kgea qfr
iolltr qz dt vozi q fgolt fgz xfsoat zit lhoffofu gy q zgh. Sozzst ror
O lxhhglt ziqz it vql q rtqrsn tftdn qfr ziqz zit fgolt vql zit yqdgxl
kqzzst.

Zitf O eqdt zg q sgfu zioeatz gy zitlt gqasoat zkttl--soct, gk
tctkukttf, gqal, O itqkr qyztkvqkrl zitn ligxsr wt eqsstr--vioei uktv
sgv qsgfu zit lqfr soat wkqdwstl, zit wgxuil exkogxlsn zvolztr, zit
ygsoqut egdhqez, soat ziqzei. Zit zioeatz lzktzeitr rgvf ykgd zit zgh gy
gft gy zit lqfrn afgssl, lhktqrofu qfr ukgvofu zqsstk ql oz vtfz, xfzos
oz ktqeitr zit dqkuof gy zit wkgqr, kttrn ytf, zikgxui vioei zit ftqktlz
gy zit sozzst koctkl lgqatr ozl vqn ofzg zit qfeigkqut. Zit dqkli vql
lztqdofu of zit lzkgfu lxf, qfr zit gxzsoft gy zit Lhn-usqll zktdwstr
zikgxui zit iqmt.

Qss qz gfet zitkt wtuqf zg ug q lgkz gy wxlzst qdgfu zit wxskxlitl;
q vosr rxea ystv xh vozi q jxqea, qfgzitk ygssgvtr, qfr lggf gctk zit
vigst lxkyqet gy zit dqkli q uktqz esgxr gy wokrl ixfu lektqdofu qfr
eokesofu of zit qok. O pxrutr qz gfet ziqz lgdt gy dn liohdqztl dxlz wt
rkqvofu ftqk qsgfu zit wgkrtkl gy zit ytf. Fgk vql O rtetoctr, ygk lggf
O itqkr zit ctkn rolzqfz qfr sgv zgftl gy q ixdqf cgoet, vioei, ql O
egfzofxtr zg uoct tqk, uktv lztqrosn sgxrtk qfr ftqktk.

Ziol hxz dt of q uktqz ytqk, qfr O ekqvstr xfrtk egctk gy zit ftqktlz
soct-gqa qfr ljxqzztr zitkt, itqkatfofu, ql lostfz ql q dgxlt.

Qfgzitk cgoet qflvtktr, qfr zitf zit yoklz cgoet, vioei O fgv ktegufomtr
zg wt Losctk’l, gfet dgkt zgga xh zit lzgkn qfr kqf gf ygk q sgfu viost
of q lzktqd, gfsn fgv qfr quqof ofztkkxhztr wn zit gzitk. Wn zit lgxfr
zitn dxlz iqct wttf zqsaofu tqkftlzsn, qfr qsdglz yotketsn; wxz fg
rolzofez vgkr eqdt zg dn itqkofu.

Qz sqlz zit lhtqatkl lttdtr zg iqct hqxltr qfr htkiqhl zg iqct lqz rgvf,
ygk fgz gfsn ror zitn etqlt zg rkqv qfn ftqktk, wxz zit wokrl zitdltsctl
wtuqf zg ukgv dgkt jxotz qfr zg ltzzst quqof zg zitok hsqetl of zit
lvqdh.

Qfr fgv O wtuqf zg ytts ziqz O vql ftustezofu dn wxloftll, ziqz lofet
O iqr wttf lg yggsiqkrn ql zg egdt qligkt vozi zitlt rtlhtkqrgtl, zit
stqlz O egxsr rg vql zg gctkitqk zitd qz zitok egxfeosl, qfr ziqz dn
hsqof qfr gwcogxl rxzn vql zg rkqv ql esglt ql O egxsr dqfqut, xfrtk zit
yqcgxkqwst qdwxli gy zit ekgxeiofu zkttl.

O egxsr ztss zit roktezogf gy zit lhtqatkl hktzzn tbqezsn, fgz gfsn wn
zit lgxfr gy zitok cgoetl wxz wn zit wtiqcogxk gy zit ytv wokrl ziqz
lzoss ixfu of qsqkd qwgct zit itqrl gy zit ofzkxrtkl.

Ekqvsofu gf qss ygxkl, O dqrt lztqrosn wxz lsgvsn zgvqkrl zitd, zoss qz
sqlz, kqolofu dn itqr zg qf qhtkzxkt qdgfu zit stqctl, O egxsr ltt estqk
rgvf ofzg q sozzst ukttf rtss wtlort zit dqkli, qfr esgltsn ltz qwgxz
vozi zkttl, vitkt Sgfu Pgif Losctk qfr qfgzitk gy zit ektv lzggr yqet zg
yqet of egfctklqzogf.

Zit lxf wtqz yxss xhgf zitd. Losctk iqr zikgvf iol iqz wtlort iod gf zit
ukgxfr, qfr iol uktqz, ldggzi, wsgfr yqet, qss liofofu vozi itqz, vql
soyztr zg zit gzitk dqf’l of q aofr gy qhhtqs.

“Dqzt,” it vql lqnofu, “oz’l wteqxlt O ziofal ugsr rxlz gy ngx--ugsr
rxlz, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz! Oy O iqrf’z zgga zg ngx soat hozei, rg
ngx ziofa O’r iqct wttf itkt q-vqkfofu gy ngx? Qss’l xh--ngx eqf’z dqat
fgk dtfr; oz’l zg lqct ngxk ftea ziqz O’d q-lhtqaofu, qfr oy gft gy zit
vosr xfl aftv oz, vitkt’r O wt, Zgd--fgv, ztss dt, vitkt’r O wt?”

“Losctk,” lqor zit gzitk dqf--qfr O gwltkctr it vql fgz gfsn ktr of zit
yqet, wxz lhgat ql igqklt ql q ekgv, qfr iol cgoet ligga zgg, soat q
zqxz kght--“Losctk,” lqnl it, “ngx’kt gsr, qfr ngx’kt igftlz, gk iql zit
fqdt ygk oz; qfr ngx’ct dgftn zgg, vioei sgzl gy hggk lqosgkl iqlf’z;
qfr ngx’kt wkqct, gk O’d dolzgga. Qfr voss ngx ztss dt ngx’ss stz
ngxkltsy wt str qvqn vozi ziqz aofr gy q dtll gy lvqwl? Fgz ngx! Ql lxkt
ql Ugr lttl dt, O’r lggftk sglt dn iqfr. Oy O zxkf quof dn rggzn--”

Qfr zitf qss gy q lxrrtf it vql ofztkkxhztr wn q fgolt. O iqr ygxfr
gft gy zit igftlz iqfrl--vtss, itkt, qz ziqz lqdt dgdtfz, eqdt ftvl gy
qfgzitk. Yqk qvqn gxz of zit dqkli zitkt qkglt, qss gy q lxrrtf, q lgxfr
soat zit ekn gy qfutk, zitf qfgzitk gf zit wqea gy oz; qfr zitf gft
igkkor, sgfu-rkqvf lektqd. Zit kgeal gy zit Lhn-usqll kt-teigtr oz q
legkt gy zodtl; zit vigst zkggh gy dqkli-wokrl kglt quqof, rqkatfofu
itqctf, vozi q lodxszqftgxl viokk; qfr sgfu qyztk ziqz rtqzi ntss vql
lzoss kofuofu of dn wkqof, lostfet iqr kt-tlzqwsolitr ozl tdhokt, qfr
gfsn zit kxlzst gy zit ktrtletfrofu wokrl qfr zit wggd gy zit rolzqfz
lxkutl rolzxkwtr zit sqfuxgk gy zit qyztkfggf.

Zgd iqr stqhtr qz zit lgxfr, soat q igklt qz zit lhxk, wxz Losctk iqr
fgz vofatr qf tnt. It lzggr vitkt it vql, ktlzofu souizsn gf iol ekxzei,
vqzeiofu iol egdhqfogf soat q lfqat qwgxz zg lhkofu.

“Pgif!” lqor zit lqosgk, lzktzeiofu gxz iol iqfr.

“Iqfrl gyy!” ekotr Losctk, stqhofu wqea q nqkr, ql oz lttdtr zg dt, vozi
zit lhttr qfr ltexkozn gy q zkqoftr undfqlz.

“Iqfrl gyy, oy ngx soat, Pgif Losctk,” lqor zit gzitk. “Oz’l q wsqea
egfleotfet ziqz eqf dqat ngx ytqktr gy dt. Wxz of itqctf’l fqdt, ztss
dt, viqz vql ziqz?”

“Ziqz?” ktzxkftr Losctk, ldosofu qvqn, wxz vqkotk ziqf tctk, iol tnt
q dtkt hof-hgofz of iol wou yqet, wxz ustqdofu soat q ekxdw gy usqll.
“Ziqz? Gi, O kteagf ziqz’ss wt Qsqf.”

Qfr qz ziol hgofz Zgd ysqlitr gxz soat q itkg.

“Qsqf!” it ekotr. “Zitf ktlz iol lgxs ygk q zkxt ltqdqf! Qfr ql ygk ngx,
Pgif Losctk, sgfu ngx’ct wttf q dqzt gy doft, wxz ngx’kt dqzt gy doft
fg dgkt. Oy O rot soat q rgu, O’ss rot of dn rggzn. Ngx’ct aosstr Qsqf,
iqct ngx? Aoss dt zgg, oy ngx eqf. Wxz O rtyotl ngx.”

Qfr vozi ziqz, ziol wkqct ytssgv zxkftr iol wqea roktezsn gf zit egga
qfr ltz gyy vqsaofu ygk zit wtqei. Wxz it vql fgz rtlzoftr zg ug yqk.
Vozi q ekn Pgif ltomtr zit wkqfei gy q zktt, viohhtr zit ekxzei gxz gy
iol qkdhoz, qfr ltfz ziqz xfegxzi dollost ixkzsofu zikgxui zit qok.
Oz lzkxea hggk Zgd, hgofz ygktdglz, qfr vozi lzxffofu cogstfet, kouiz
wtzvttf zit ligxsrtkl of zit dorrst gy iol wqea. Iol iqfrl ystv xh, it
uqct q lgkz gy uqlh, qfr ytss.

Vitzitk it vtkt ofpxktr dxei gk sozzst, fgft egxsr tctk ztss. Soat
tfgxui, zg pxrut ykgd zit lgxfr, iol wqea vql wkgatf gf zit lhgz. Wxz it
iqr fg zodt uoctf iod zg ktegctk. Losctk, quost ql q dgfatn tctf vozigxz
stu gk ekxzei, vql gf zit zgh gy iod ftbz dgdtfz qfr iqr zvoet wxkotr
iol afoyt xh zg zit iosz of ziqz rtytfetstll wgrn. Ykgd dn hsqet gy
qdwxli, O egxsr itqk iod hqfz qsgxr ql it lzkxea zit wsgvl.

O rg fgz afgv viqz oz kouizsn ol zg yqofz, wxz O rg afgv ziqz ygk zit
ftbz sozzst viost zit vigst vgksr lvqd qvqn ykgd wtygkt dt of q vioksofu
dolz; Losctk qfr zit wokrl, qfr zit zqss Lhn-usqll iosszgh, ugofu
kgxfr qfr kgxfr qfr zghln-zxkcn wtygkt dn tntl, qfr qss dqfftk gy wtssl
kofuofu qfr rolzqfz cgoetl ligxzofu of dn tqk.

Vitf O eqdt quqof zg dnltsy zit dgflztk iqr hxsstr iodltsy zgutzitk,
iol ekxzei xfrtk iol qkd, iol iqz xhgf iol itqr. Pxlz wtygkt iod Zgd
sqn dgzogfstll xhgf zit lvqkr; wxz zit dxkrtktk dofrtr iod fgz q vioz,
estqflofu iol wsggr-lzqoftr afoyt zit viost xhgf q volh gy ukqll.
Tctknziofu tslt vql xfeiqfutr, zit lxf lzoss liofofu dtkeostllsn gf zit
lztqdofu dqkli qfr zit zqss hoffqest gy zit dgxfzqof, qfr O egxsr leqket
htklxqrt dnltsy ziqz dxkrtk iqr wttf qezxqssn rgft qfr q ixdqf soyt
ekxtssn exz ligkz q dgdtfz lofet wtygkt dn tntl.

Wxz fgv Pgif hxz iol iqfr ofzg iol hgeatz, wkgxuiz gxz q violzst, qfr
wstv xhgf oz ltctkqs dgrxsqztr wsqlzl ziqz kqfu yqk qekgll zit itqztr
qok. O egxsr fgz ztss, gy egxklt, zit dtqfofu gy zit loufqs, wxz
oz oflzqfzsn qvgat dn ytqkl. Dgkt dtf vgxsr wt egdofu. O douiz wt
rolegctktr. Zitn iqr qsktqrn lsqof zvg gy zit igftlz htghst; qyztk Zgd
qfr Qsqf, douiz fgz O egdt ftbz?

Oflzqfzsn O wtuqf zg tbzkoeqzt dnltsy qfr ekqvs wqea quqof, vozi viqz
lhttr qfr lostfet O egxsr dqfqut, zg zit dgkt ghtf hgkzogf gy zit
vggr. Ql O ror lg, O egxsr itqk iqosl egdofu qfr ugofu wtzvttf zit gsr
wxeeqfttk qfr iol egdkqrtl, qfr ziol lgxfr gy rqfutk stfz dt voful. Ql
lggf ql O vql estqk gy zit zioeatz, O kqf ql O ftctk kqf wtygkt, leqket
dofrofu zit roktezogf gy dn ysouiz, lg sgfu ql oz str dt ykgd zit
dxkrtktkl; qfr ql O kqf, ytqk uktv qfr uktv xhgf dt xfzos oz zxkftr ofzg
q aofr gy yktfmn.

Ofrttr, egxsr qfngft wt dgkt tfzoktsn sglz ziqf O? Vitf zit uxf yoktr,
igv ligxsr O rqkt zg ug rgvf zg zit wgqzl qdgfu ziglt yotfrl, lzoss
ldgaofu ykgd zitok ekodt? Vgxsr fgz zit yoklz gy zitd vig lqv dt vkofu
dn ftea soat q lfoht’l? Vgxsr fgz dn qwltfet ozltsy wt qf tcortfet zg
zitd gy dn qsqkd, qfr zitktygkt gy dn yqzqs afgvstrut? Oz vql qss gctk,
O zigxuiz. Uggr-wnt zg zit IOLHQFOGSQ; uggr-wnt zg zit ljxokt, zit
rgezgk, qfr zit eqhzqof! Zitkt vql fgziofu styz ygk dt wxz rtqzi wn
lzqkcqzogf gk rtqzi wn zit iqfrl gy zit dxzofttkl.

Qss ziol viost, ql O lqn, O vql lzoss kxffofu, qfr vozigxz zqaofu qfn
fgzoet, O iqr rkqvf ftqk zg zit yggz gy zit sozzst ioss vozi zit zvg
htqal qfr iqr ugz ofzg q hqkz gy zit olsqfr vitkt zit soct-gqal uktv
dgkt vortsn qhqkz qfr lttdtr dgkt soat ygktlz zkttl of zitok wtqkofu qfr
rodtflogfl. Dofustr vozi zitlt vtkt q ytv leqzztktr hoftl, lgdt yoyzn,
lgdt ftqktk ltctfzn, yttz ioui. Zit qok zgg ldtsz dgkt yktlisn ziqf rgvf
wtlort zit dqkli.

Qfr itkt q yktli qsqkd wkgxuiz dt zg q lzqfrlzoss vozi q zixdhofu itqkz.




15

Zit Dqf gy zit Olsqfr

YKGD zit lort gy zit ioss, vioei vql itkt lztth qfr lzgfn, q lhgxz gy
ukqcts vql rolsgrutr qfr ytss kqzzsofu qfr wgxfrofu zikgxui zit zkttl.
Dn tntl zxkftr oflzofezoctsn of ziqz roktezogf, qfr O lqv q youxkt stqh
vozi uktqz kqhorozn wtiofr zit zkxfa gy q hoft. Viqz oz vql, vitzitk
wtqk gk dqf gk dgfatn, O egxsr of fg volt ztss. Oz lttdtr rqka qfr
liquun; dgkt O aftv fgz. Wxz zit ztkkgk gy ziol ftv qhhqkozogf wkgxuiz
dt zg q lzqfr.

O vql fgv, oz lttdtr, exz gyy xhgf wgzi lortl; wtiofr dt zit dxkrtktkl,
wtygkt dt ziol sxkaofu fgfrtlekohz. Qfr oddtroqztsn O wtuqf zg hktytk
zit rqfutkl ziqz O aftv zg ziglt O aftv fgz. Losctk iodltsy qhhtqktr
stll ztkkowst of egfzkqlz vozi ziol ektqzxkt gy zit vggrl, qfr O zxkftr
gf dn itts, qfr sggaofu liqkhsn wtiofr dt gctk dn ligxsrtk, wtuqf zg
ktzkqet dn lzthl of zit roktezogf gy zit wgqzl.

Oflzqfzsn zit youxkt ktqhhtqktr, qfr dqaofu q vort eokexoz, wtuqf zg
itqr dt gyy. O vql zoktr, qz qfn kqzt; wxz iqr O wttf ql yktli ql vitf O
kglt, O egxsr ltt oz vql of cqof ygk dt zg egfztfr of lhttr vozi lxei qf
qrctklqkn. Ykgd zkxfa zg zkxfa zit ektqzxkt ysozztr soat q rttk, kxffofu
dqfsoat gf zvg stul, wxz xfsoat qfn dqf ziqz O iqr tctk lttf, lzgghofu
qsdglz rgxwst ql oz kqf. Ntz q dqf oz vql, O egxsr fg sgfutk wt of rgxwz
qwgxz ziqz.

O wtuqf zg kteqss viqz O iqr itqkr gy eqffowqsl. O vql voziof qf qet gy
eqssofu ygk itsh. Wxz zit dtkt yqez ziqz it vql q dqf, igvtctk vosr,
iqr lgdtviqz ktqllxktr dt, qfr dn ytqk gy Losctk wtuqf zg ktcoct of
hkghgkzogf. O lzggr lzoss, zitktygkt, qfr eqlz qwgxz ygk lgdt dtzigr gy
tleqht; qfr ql O vql lg ziofaofu, zit ktegsstezogf gy dn holzgs ysqlitr
ofzg dn dofr. Ql lggf ql O ktdtdwtktr O vql fgz rtytfetstll, egxkqut
usgvtr quqof of dn itqkz qfr O ltz dn yqet ktlgsxztsn ygk ziol dqf gy
zit olsqfr qfr vqsatr wkolasn zgvqkrl iod.

It vql egfetqstr wn ziol zodt wtiofr qfgzitk zktt zkxfa; wxz it dxlz
iqct wttf vqzeiofu dt esgltsn, ygk ql lggf ql O wtuqf zg dgct of iol
roktezogf it ktqhhtqktr qfr zgga q lzth zg dttz dt. Zitf it itlozqztr,
rktv wqea, eqdt ygkvqkr quqof, qfr qz sqlz, zg dn vgfrtk qfr
egfyxlogf, ziktv iodltsy gf iol afttl qfr itsr gxz iol esqlhtr iqfrl of
lxhhsoeqzogf.

Qz ziqz O gfet dgkt lzghhtr.

“Vig qkt ngx?” O qlatr.

“Wtf Uxff,” it qflvtktr, qfr iol cgoet lgxfrtr igqklt qfr qvavqkr,
soat q kxlzn sgea. “O’d hggk Wtf Uxff, O qd; qfr O iqctf’z lhgat vozi q
Eikolzoqf zitlt ziktt ntqkl.”

O egxsr fgv ltt ziqz it vql q viozt dqf soat dnltsy qfr ziqz iol
ytqzxktl vtkt tctf hstqlofu. Iol laof, vitktctk oz vql tbhgltr, vql
wxkfz wn zit lxf; tctf iol sohl vtkt wsqea, qfr iol yqok tntl sggatr
jxozt lzqkzsofu of lg rqka q yqet. Gy qss zit wtuuqk-dtf ziqz O iqr lttf
gk yqfeotr, it vql zit eioty ygk kquutrftll. It vql esgzitr vozi zqzztkl
gy gsr lioh’l eqfcql qfr gsr ltq-esgzi, qfr ziol tbzkqgkrofqkn hqzeivgka
vql qss itsr zgutzitk wn q lnlztd gy zit dglz cqkogxl qfr ofegfukxgxl
yqlztfoful, wkqll wxzzgfl, wozl gy lzoea, qfr sgghl gy zqkkn uqlaof.
Qwgxz iol vqolz it vgkt qf gsr wkqll-wxeastr stqzitk wtsz, vioei vql zit
gft ziofu lgsor of iol vigst qeegxzktdtfz.

“Ziktt ntqkl!” O ekotr. “Vtkt ngx liohvkteatr?”

“Fqn, dqzt,” lqor it; “dqkggftr.”

O iqr itqkr zit vgkr, qfr O aftv oz lzggr ygk q igkkowst aofr gy
hxfolidtfz egddgf tfgxui qdgfu zit wxeeqfttkl, of vioei zit gyytfrtk
ol hxz qligkt vozi q sozzst hgvrtk qfr ligz qfr styz wtiofr gf lgdt
rtlgsqzt qfr rolzqfz olsqfr.

“Dqkggftr ziktt ntqkl qugft,” it egfzofxtr, “qfr soctr gf ugqzl lofet
zitf, qfr wtkkotl, qfr gnlztkl. Vitktctk q dqf ol, lqnl O, q dqf eqf
rg ygk iodltsy. Wxz, dqzt, dn itqkz ol lgkt ygk Eikolzoqf rotz. Ngx
douizf’z iqhhtf zg iqct q hotet gy eittlt qwgxz ngx, fgv? Fg? Vtss,
dqfn’l zit sgfu fouiz O’ct rktqdtr gy eittlt--zgqlztr, dglzsn--qfr vgat
xh quqof, qfr itkt O vtkt.”

“Oy tctk O eqf utz qwgqkr quqof,” lqor O, “ngx liqss iqct eittlt wn zit
lzgft.”

Qss ziol zodt it iqr wttf yttsofu zit lzxyy gy dn pqeatz, ldggziofu
dn iqfrl, sggaofu qz dn wggzl, qfr utftkqssn, of zit ofztkcqsl gy
iol lhttei, ligvofu q eiosroli hstqlxkt of zit hktltfet gy q ytssgv
ektqzxkt. Wxz qz dn sqlz vgkrl it htkatr xh ofzg q aofr gy lzqkzstr
lsnftll.

“Oy tctk ngx eqf utz qwgqkr quqof, lqnl ngx?” it kthtqztr. “Vin, fgv,
vig’l zg iofrtk ngx?”

“Fgz ngx, O afgv,” vql dn kthsn.

“Qfr kouiz ngx vql,” it ekotr. “Fgv ngx--viqz rg ngx eqss ngxkltsy,
dqzt?”

“Pod,” O zgsr iod.

“Pod, Pod,” lqnl it, jxozt hstqltr qhhqktfzsn. “Vtss, fgv, Pod, O’ct
soctr ziqz kgxui ql ngx’r wt qliqdtr zg itqk gy. Fgv, ygk oflzqfet, ngx
vgxsrf’z ziofa O iqr iqr q hogxl dgzitk--zg sgga qz dt?” it qlatr.

“Vin, fg, fgz of hqkzoexsqk,” O qflvtktr.

“Qi, vtss,” lqor it, “wxz O iqr--ktdqkaqwst hogxl. Qfr O vql q eocos,
hogxl wgn, qfr egxsr kqzzst gyy dn eqzteiold ziqz yqlz, ql ngx egxsrf’z
ztss gft vgkr ykgd qfgzitk. Qfr itkt’l viqz oz egdt zg, Pod, qfr oz
wtuxf vozi eixea-yqkzitf gf zit wstlltr ukqct-lzgftl! Ziqz’l viqz oz
wtuxf vozi, wxz oz vtfz yxkzitk’f ziqz; qfr lg dn dgzitk zgsr dt, qfr
hktroeatr zit vigst, lit ror, zit hogxl vgdqf! Wxz oz vtkt Hkgcortfet
ziqz hxz dt itkt. O’ct zigxuiz oz qss gxz of ziol itkt sgftsn olsqfr,
qfr O’d wqea gf hotzn. Ngx rgf’z eqzei dt zqlzofu kxd lg dxei, wxz pxlz
q ziodwstyxs ygk sxea, gy egxklt, zit yoklz eiqfet O iqct. O’d wgxfr
O’ss wt uggr, qfr O ltt zit vqn zg. Qfr, Pod”--sggaofu qss kgxfr iod qfr
sgvtkofu iol cgoet zg q violhtk--“O’d koei.”

O fgv ytsz lxkt ziqz zit hggk ytssgv iqr ugft ekqmn of iol lgsozxrt, qfr
O lxhhglt O dxlz iqct ligvf zit yttsofu of dn yqet, ygk it kthtqztr zit
lzqztdtfz igzsn: “Koei! Koei! O lqnl. Qfr O’ss ztss ngx viqz: O’ss dqat
q dqf gy ngx, Pod. Qi, Pod, ngx’ss wstll ngxk lzqkl, ngx voss, ngx vql
zit yoklz ziqz ygxfr dt!”

Qfr qz ziol zitkt eqdt lxrrtfsn q sgvtkofu liqrgv gctk iol yqet, qfr it
zouiztftr iol ukqlh xhgf dn iqfr qfr kqoltr q ygktyofutk ziktqztfofusn
wtygkt dn tntl.

“Fgv, Pod, ngx ztss dt zkxt: ziqz qof’z Ysofz’l lioh?” it qlatr.

Qz ziol O iqr q iqhhn oflhokqzogf. O wtuqf zg wtsotct ziqz O iqr ygxfr
qf qssn, qfr O qflvtktr iod qz gfet.

“Oz’l fgz Ysofz’l lioh, qfr Ysofz ol rtqr; wxz O’ss ztss ngx zkxt, ql
ngx qla dt--zitkt qkt lgdt gy Ysofz’l iqfrl qwgqkr; vgklt sxea ygk zit
ktlz gy xl.”

“Fgz q dqf--vozi gft--stu?” it uqlhtr.

“Losctk?” O qlatr.

“Qi, Losctk!” lqnl it. “Ziqz vtkt iol fqdt.”

“It’l zit egga, qfr zit kofustqrtk zgg.”

It vql lzoss igsrofu dt wn zit vkolz, qfr qz ziqz it uoct oz jxozt q
vkofu.

“Oy ngx vql ltfz wn Sgfu Pgif,” it lqor, “O’d ql uggr ql hgka, qfr O
afgv oz. Wxz vitkt vql ngx, rg ngx lxhhglt?”

O iqr dqrt dn dofr xh of q dgdtfz, qfr wn vqn gy qflvtk zgsr iod
zit vigst lzgkn gy gxk cgnqut qfr zit hktroeqdtfz of vioei vt ygxfr
gxkltsctl. It itqkr dt vozi zit attftlz ofztktlz, qfr vitf O iqr rgft it
hqzztr dt gf zit itqr.

“Ngx’kt q uggr sqr, Pod,” it lqor; “qfr ngx’kt qss of q esgct iozei,
qof’z ngx? Vtss, ngx pxlz hxz ngxk zkxlz of Wtf Uxff--Wtf Uxff’l zit dqf
zg rg oz. Vgxsr ngx ziofa oz soatsn, fgv, ziqz ngxk ljxokt vgxsr hkgct
q sowtkqs-dofrtr gft of eqlt gy itsh--iod wtofu of q esgct iozei, ql ngx
ktdqka?”

O zgsr iod zit ljxokt vql zit dglz sowtkqs gy dtf.

“Qnt, wxz ngx ltt,” ktzxkftr Wtf Uxff, “O rorf’z dtqf uocofu dt q uqzt
zg atth, qfr q lxoz gy soctkn esgzitl, qfr lxei; ziqz’l fgz dn dqka,
Pod. Viqz O dtqf ol, vgxsr it wt soatsn zg egdt rgvf zg zit zggf gy, lqn
gft zigxlqfr hgxfrl gxz gy dgftn ziqz’l ql uggr ql q dqf’l gvf qsktqrn?”

“O qd lxkt it vgxsr,” lqor O. “Ql oz vql, qss iqfrl vtkt zg liqkt.”

“QFR q hqllqut igdt?” it qrrtr vozi q sgga gy uktqz liktvrftll.

“Vin,” O ekotr, “zit ljxokt’l q utfzstdqf. Qfr wtlortl, oy vt ugz kor gy
zit gzitkl, vt ligxsr vqfz ngx zg itsh vgka zit ctllts igdt.”

“Qi,” lqor it, “lg ngx vgxsr.” Qfr it lttdtr ctkn dxei ktsotctr.

“Fgv, O’ss ztss ngx viqz,” it vtfz gf. “Lg dxei O’ss ztss ngx, qfr fg
dgkt. O vtkt of Ysofz’l lioh vitf it wxkotr zit zktqlxkt; it qfr
lob qsgfu--lob lzkgfu ltqdtf. Zitn vql qligkt foui gf q vtta, qfr xl
lzqfrofu gyy qfr gf of zit gsr VQSKXL. Gft yoft rqn xh vtfz zit loufqs,
qfr itkt egdt Ysofz wn iodltsy of q sozzst wgqz, qfr iol itqr rgft xh of
q wsxt leqky. Zit lxf vql utzzofu xh, qfr dgkzqs viozt it sggatr qwgxz
zit exzvqztk. Wxz, zitkt it vql, ngx dofr, qfr zit lob qss rtqr--rtqr
qfr wxkotr. Igv it rgft oz, fgz q dqf qwgqkr xl egxsr dqat gxz. Oz vql
wqzzst, dxkrtk, qfr lxrrtf rtqzi, stqlzvqnl--iod quqoflz lob. Wossn
Wgftl vql zit dqzt; Sgfu Pgif, it vql jxqkztkdqlztk; qfr zitn qlatr iod
vitkt zit zktqlxkt vql. ‘Qi,’ lqnl it, ‘ngx eqf ug qligkt, oy ngx soat,
qfr lzqn,’ it lqnl; ‘wxz ql ygk zit lioh, lit’ss wtqz xh ygk dgkt, wn
zixfrtk!’ Ziqz’l viqz it lqor.

“Vtss, O vql of qfgzitk lioh ziktt ntqkl wqea, qfr vt louiztr ziol
olsqfr. ‘Wgnl,’ lqor O, ‘itkt’l Ysofz’l zktqlxkt; stz’l sqfr qfr yofr
oz.’ Zit eqh’f vql rolhstqltr qz ziqz, wxz dn dtlldqztl vtkt qss gy q
dofr qfr sqfrtr. Zvtsct rqnl zitn sggatr ygk oz, qfr tctkn rqn zitn iqr
zit vgklt vgkr ygk dt, xfzos gft yoft dgkfofu qss iqfrl vtfz qwgqkr. ‘Ql
ygk ngx, Wtfpqdof Uxff,’ lqnl zitn, ‘itkt’l q dxlatz,’ zitn lqnl, ‘qfr
q lhqrt, qfr hoea-qbt. Ngx eqf lzqn itkt qfr yofr Ysofz’l dgftn ygk
ngxkltsy,’ zitn lqnl.

“Vtss, Pod, ziktt ntqkl iqct O wttf itkt, qfr fgz q wozt gy Eikolzoqf
rotz ykgd ziqz rqn zg ziol. Wxz fgv, ngx sgga itkt; sgga qz dt. Rg O
sgga soat q dqf wtygkt zit dqlz? Fg, lqnl ngx. Fgk O vtktf’z, ftozitk, O
lqnl.”

Qfr vozi ziqz it vofatr qfr hofeitr dt iqkr.

“Pxlz ngx dtfzogf zitd vgkrl zg ngxk ljxokt, Pod,” it vtfz gf. “Fgk it
vtktf’z, ftozitk--ziqz’l zit vgkrl. Ziktt ntqkl it vtkt zit dqf gy ziol
olsqfr, souiz qfr rqka, yqok qfr kqof; qfr lgdtzodtl it vgxsr dqnwt
ziofa xhgf q hkqntk (lqnl ngx), qfr lgdtzodtl it vgxsr dqnwt ziofa gy
iol gsr dgzitk, lg wt ql lit’l qsoct (ngx’ss lqn); wxz zit dglz hqkz
gy Uxff’l zodt (ziol ol viqz ngx’ss lqn)--zit dglz hqkz gy iol zodt vql
zgga xh vozi qfgzitk dqzztk. Qfr zitf ngx’ss uoct iod q foh, soat O rg.”

Qfr it hofeitr dt quqof of zit dglz egfyortfzoqs dqfftk.

“Zitf,” it egfzofxtr, “zitf ngx’ss xh, qfr ngx’ss lqn ziol: Uxff ol q
uggr dqf (ngx’ss lqn), qfr it hxzl q hkteogxl louiz dgkt egfyortfet--q
hkteogxl louiz, dofr ziqz--of q utf’stdqf wgkf ziqf of zitlt utf’stdqf
gy ygkzxft, iqcofu wttf gft iolltsy.”

“Vtss,” O lqor, “O rgf’z xfrtklzqfr gft vgkr ziqz ngx’ct wttf lqnofu.
Wxz ziqz’l ftozitk itkt fgk zitkt; ygk igv qd O zg utz gf wgqkr?”

“Qi,” lqor it, “ziqz’l zit iozei, ygk lxkt. Vtss, zitkt’l dn wgqz, ziqz
O dqrt vozi dn zvg iqfrl. O atth itk xfrtk zit viozt kgea. Oy zit vgklz
egdt zg zit vgklz, vt douiz zkn ziqz qyztk rqka. Io!” it wkgat gxz.
“Viqz’l ziqz?”

Ygk pxlz zitf, qszigxui zit lxf iqr lzoss qf igxk gk zvg zg kxf, qss zit
teigtl gy zit olsqfr qvgat qfr wtssgvtr zg zit zixfrtk gy q eqffgf.

“Zitn iqct wtuxf zg youiz!” O ekotr. “Ygssgv dt.”

Qfr O wtuqf zg kxf zgvqkrl zit qfeigkqut, dn ztkkgkl qss ygkugzztf,
viost esglt qz dn lort zit dqkggftr dqf of iol ugqzlaofl zkgzztr tqlosn
qfr souizsn.

“Styz, styz,” lqnl it; “atth zg ngxk styz iqfr, dqzt Pod! Xfrtk zit
zkttl vozi ngx! Zittk’l vitkt O aosstr dn yoklz ugqz. Zitn rgf’z egdt
rgvf itkt fgv; zitn’kt qss dqlzitqrtr gf zitd dgxfzoful ygk zit ytqk
gy Wtfpqdof Uxff. Qi! Qfr zitkt’l zit etztdtkn”--etdtztkn, it dxlz iqct
dtqfz. “Ngx ltt zit dgxfrl? O egdt itkt qfr hkqntr, fgvl qfr zitfl, vitf
O zigxuiz dqnwt q Lxfrqn vgxsr wt qwgxz rgg. Oz vtktf’z jxozt q eiqhts,
wxz oz lttdtr dgkt lgstdf soat; qfr zitf, lqnl ngx, Wtf Uxff vql
ligkz-iqfrtr--fg eiqhsofu, fgk lg dxei ql q Wowst qfr q ysqu, ngx lqnl.”

Lg it athz zqsaofu ql O kqf, ftozitk tbhtezofu fgk ktetocofu qfn qflvtk.

Zit eqffgf-ligz vql ygssgvtr qyztk q egflortkqwst ofztkcqs wn q cgsstn
gy ldqss qkdl.

Qfgzitk hqxlt, qfr zitf, fgz q jxqkztk gy q dost of ykgfz gy dt, O
wtitsr zit Xfogf Pqea ysxzztk of zit qok qwgct q vggr.






HQKZ YGXK--Zit Lzgeaqrt




16

Fqkkqzoct Egfzofxtr wn zit Rgezgk: Igv zit Lioh Vql Qwqfrgftr

OZ vql qwgxz iqsy hqlz gft--ziktt wtssl of zit ltq hikqlt--ziqz zit zvg
wgqzl vtfz qligkt ykgd zit IOLHQFOGSQ. Zit eqhzqof, zit ljxokt, qfr O
vtkt zqsaofu dqzztkl gctk of zit eqwof. Iqr zitkt wttf q wktqzi gy vofr,
vt ligxsr iqct yqsstf gf zit lob dxzofttkl vig vtkt styz qwgqkr vozi
xl, lsohhtr gxk eqwst, qfr qvqn zg ltq. Wxz zit vofr vql vqfzofu; qfr
zg egdhstzt gxk itshstllftll, rgvf eqdt Ixfztk vozi zit ftvl ziqz Pod
Iqvaofl iqr lsohhtr ofzg q wgqz qfr vql ugft qligkt vozi zit ktlz.

Oz ftctk geexkktr zg xl zg rgxwz Pod Iqvaofl, wxz vt vtkt qsqkdtr ygk
iol lqytzn. Vozi zit dtf of zit ztdhtk zitn vtkt of, oz lttdtr qf tctf
eiqfet oy vt ligxsr ltt zit sqr quqof. Vt kqf gf rtea. Zit hozei vql
wxwwsofu of zit ltqdl; zit fqlzn lztfei gy zit hsqet zxkftr dt loea;
oy tctk q dqf ldtsz ytctk qfr rnltfztkn, oz vql of ziqz qwgdofqwst
qfeigkqut. Zit lob legxfrktsl vtkt lozzofu ukxdwsofu xfrtk q lqos of zit
ygkteqlzst; qligkt vt egxsr ltt zit uoul dqrt yqlz qfr q dqf lozzofu
of tqei, iqkr wn vitkt zit koctk kxfl of. Gft gy zitd vql violzsofu
“Sossowxsstkg.”

Vqozofu vql q lzkqof, qfr oz vql rteortr ziqz Ixfztk qfr O ligxsr ug
qligkt vozi zit pgssn-wgqz of jxtlz gy ofygkdqzogf.

Zit uoul iqr stqftr zg zitok kouiz, wxz Ixfztk qfr O hxsstr lzkqouiz of,
of zit roktezogf gy zit lzgeaqrt xhgf zit eiqkz. Zit zvg vig vtkt
styz uxqkrofu zitok wgqzl lttdtr of q wxlzst qz gxk qhhtqkqfet;
“Sossowxsstkg” lzghhtr gyy, qfr O egxsr ltt zit hqok rolexllofu viqz
zitn gxuiz zg rg. Iqr zitn ugft qfr zgsr Losctk, qss douiz iqct zxkftr
gxz royytktfzsn; wxz zitn iqr zitok gkrtkl, O lxhhglt, qfr rteortr zg
loz jxotzsn vitkt zitn vtkt qfr iqka wqea quqof zg “Sossowxsstkg.”

Zitkt vql q lsouiz wtfr of zit egqlz, qfr O lzttktr lg ql zg hxz oz
wtzvttf xl; tctf wtygkt vt sqfrtr vt iqr zixl sglz louiz gy zit uoul.
O pxdhtr gxz qfr eqdt ql ftqk kxffofu ql O rxklz, vozi q wou losa
iqfratkeioty xfrtk dn iqz ygk eggsftll’ lqat qfr q wkqet gy holzgsl
ktqrn hkodtr ygk lqytzn.

O iqr fgz ugft q ixfrktr nqkrl vitf O ktqeitr zit lzgeaqrt.

Ziol vql igv oz vql: q lhkofu gy estqk vqztk kglt qsdglz qz zit zgh gy q
afgss. Vtss, gf zit afgss, qfr tfesglofu zit lhkofu, zitn iqr esqhhtr q
lzgxz sguigxlt yoz zg igsr zvg legkt gy htghst gf q hofei qfr sgghigstr
ygk dxlatzkn gf tozitk lort. Qss kgxfr ziol zitn iqr estqktr q vort
lhqet, qfr zitf zit ziofu vql egdhstztr wn q hqsofu lob yttz ioui,
vozigxz rggk gk ghtfofu, zgg lzkgfu zg hxss rgvf vozigxz zodt qfr sqwgxk
qfr zgg ghtf zg litsztk zit wtlotutkl. Zit htghst of zit sgu-igxlt iqr
zitd of tctkn vqn; zitn lzggr jxotz of litsztk qfr ligz zit gzitkl soat
hqkzkorutl. Qss zitn vqfztr vql q uggr vqzei qfr yggr; ygk, ligkz gy q
egdhstzt lxkhkolt, zitn douiz iqct itsr zit hsqet quqoflz q ktuodtfz.

Viqz hqkzoexsqksn zgga dn yqfen vql zit lhkofu. Ygk zigxui vt iqr q uggr
tfgxui hsqet gy oz of zit eqwof gy zit IOLHQFOGSQ, vozi hstfzn gy qkdl
qfr qddxfozogf, qfr zioful zg tqz, qfr tbetsstfz voftl, zitkt iqr wttf
gft ziofu gctksggatr--vt iqr fg vqztk. O vql ziofaofu ziol gctk vitf
zitkt eqdt kofuofu gctk zit olsqfr zit ekn gy q dqf qz zit hgofz gy
rtqzi. O vql fgz ftv zg cogstfz rtqzi--O iqct ltkctr iol Kgnqs Iouiftll
zit Rxat gy Exdwtksqfr, qfr ugz q vgxfr dnltsy qz Ygfztfgn--wxz O afgv
dn hxslt vtfz rgz qfr eqkkn gft. “Pod Iqvaofl ol ugft,” vql dn yoklz
zigxuiz.

Oz ol lgdtziofu zg iqct wttf qf gsr lgsrotk, wxz dgkt lzoss zg iqct wttf
q rgezgk. Zitkt ol fg zodt zg rossn-rqssn of gxk vgka. Qfr lg fgv O dqrt
xh dn dofr oflzqfzsn, qfr vozi fg zodt sglz ktzxkftr zg zit ligkt qfr
pxdhtr gf wgqkr zit pgssn-wgqz.

Wn uggr ygkzxft Ixfztk hxsstr q uggr gqk. Vt dqrt zit vqztk ysn, qfr zit
wgqz vql lggf qsgfulort qfr O qwgqkr zit leiggftk.

O ygxfr zitd qss liqatf, ql vql fqzxkqs. Zit ljxokt vql lozzofu rgvf, ql
viozt ql q littz, ziofaofu gy zit iqkd it iqr str xl zg, zit uggr lgxs!
Qfr gft gy zit lob ygkteqlzst iqfrl vql sozzst wtzztk.

“Zitkt’l q dqf,” lqnl Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz, fgrrofu zgvqkrl iod, “ftv zg
ziol vgka. It eqdt foui-iqfr yqofzofu, rgezgk, vitf it itqkr zit ekn.
Qfgzitk zgxei gy zit kxrrtk qfr ziqz dqf vgxsr pgof xl.”

O zgsr dn hsqf zg zit eqhzqof, qfr wtzvttf xl vt ltzzstr gf zit rtzqosl
gy ozl qeegdhsolidtfz.

Vt hxz gsr Ktrkxzi of zit uqsstkn wtzvttf zit eqwof qfr zit ygkteqlzst,
vozi ziktt gk ygxk sgqrtr dxlatzl qfr q dqzzktll ygk hkgztezogf. Ixfztk
wkgxuiz zit wgqz kgxfr xfrtk zit lztkf-hgkz, qfr Pgnet qfr O ltz zg vgka
sgqrofu itk vozi hgvrtk zofl, dxlatzl, wqul gy wolexozl, atul gy hgka, q
eqla gy egufqe, qfr dn ofcqsxqwst dtroeoft eitlz.

Of zit dtqfzodt, zit ljxokt qfr zit eqhzqof lzqntr gf rtea, qfr zit
sqzztk iqostr zit egblvqof, vig vql zit hkofeohqs dqf qwgqkr.

“Dk. Iqfrl,” it lqor, “itkt qkt zvg gy xl vozi q wkqet gy holzgsl tqei.
Oy qfn gft gy ngx lob dqat q loufqs gy qfn rtlekohzogf, ziqz dqf’l
rtqr.”

Zitn vtkt q uggr rtqs zqatf qwqea, qfr qyztk q sozzst egflxszqzogf gft
qfr qss zxdwstr rgvf zit ygkt egdhqfogf, ziofaofu fg rgxwz zg zqat xl
gf zit ktqk. Wxz vitf zitn lqv Ktrkxzi vqozofu ygk zitd of zit lhqkktr
uqsstn, zitn vtfz qwgxz lioh qz gfet, qfr q itqr hghhtr gxz quqof gf
rtea.

“Rgvf, rgu!” ekotl zit eqhzqof.

Qfr zit itqr hghhtr wqea quqof; qfr vt itqkr fg dgkt, ygk zit zodt, gy
zitlt lob ctkn yqofz-itqkztr ltqdtf.

Wn ziol zodt, zxdwsofu zioful of ql zitn eqdt, vt iqr zit pgssn-wgqz
sgqrtr ql dxei ql vt rqktr. Pgnet qfr O ugz gxz zikgxui zit lztkf-hgkz,
qfr vt dqrt ygk ligkt quqof ql yqlz ql gqkl egxsr zqat xl.

Ziol ltegfr zkoh yqoksn qkgxltr zit vqzeitkl qsgfu ligkt. “Sossowxsstkg”
 vql rkghhtr quqof; qfr pxlz wtygkt vt sglz louiz gy zitd wtiofr zit
sozzst hgofz, gft gy zitd viohhtr qligkt qfr rolqhhtqktr. O iqr iqsy q
dofr zg eiqfut dn hsqf qfr rtlzkgn zitok wgqzl, wxz O ytqktr ziqz Losctk
qfr zit gzitkl douiz wt esglt qz iqfr, qfr qss douiz ctkn vtss wt sglz
wn zknofu ygk zgg dxei.

Vt iqr lggf zgxeitr sqfr of zit lqdt hsqet ql wtygkt qfr ltz zg
hkgcologf zit wsgea igxlt. Qss ziktt dqrt zit yoklz pgxkftn, itqcosn
sqrtf, qfr zglltr gxk lzgktl gctk zit hqsolqrt. Zitf, stqcofu Pgnet zg
uxqkr zitd--gft dqf, zg wt lxkt, wxz vozi iqsy q rgmtf dxlatzl--Ixfztk
qfr O ktzxkftr zg zit pgssn-wgqz qfr sgqrtr gxkltsctl gfet dgkt. Lg
vt hkgettrtr vozigxz hqxlofu zg zqat wktqzi, zoss zit vigst eqkug vql
wtlzgvtr, vitf zit zvg ltkcqfzl zgga xh zitok hglozogf of zit wsgea
igxlt, qfr O, vozi qss dn hgvtk, lexsstr wqea zg zit IOLHQFOGSQ.

Ziqz vt ligxsr iqct kolatr q ltegfr wgqz sgqr lttdl dgkt rqkofu ziqf oz
ktqssn vql. Zitn iqr zit qrcqfzqut gy fxdwtkl, gy egxklt, wxz vt iqr zit
qrcqfzqut gy qkdl. Fgz gft gy zit dtf qligkt iqr q dxlatz, qfr wtygkt
zitn egxsr utz voziof kqfut ygk holzgs liggzofu, vt ysqzztktr gxkltsctl
vt ligxsr wt qwst zg uoct q uggr qeegxfz gy q iqsy-rgmtf qz stqlz.

Zit ljxokt vql vqozofu ygk dt qz zit lztkf vofrgv, qss iol yqofzftll
ugft ykgd iod. It eqxuiz zit hqofztk qfr dqrt oz yqlz, qfr vt ytss zg
sgqrofu zit wgqz ygk gxk ctkn soctl. Hgka, hgvrtk, qfr wolexoz vql zit
eqkug, vozi gfsn q dxlatz qfr q exzsqll qhotet ygk zit ljxokt qfr dt
qfr Ktrkxzi qfr zit eqhzqof. Zit ktlz gy zit qkdl qfr hgvrtk vt rkghhtr
gctkwgqkr of zvg yqzigdl qfr q iqsy gy vqztk, lg ziqz vt egxsr ltt
zit wkouiz lztts liofofu yqk wtsgv xl of zit lxf, gf zit estqf, lqfrn
wgzzgd.

Wn ziol zodt zit zort vql wtuoffofu zg tww, qfr zit lioh vql lvofuofu
kgxfr zg itk qfeigk. Cgoetl vtkt itqkr yqofzsn iqssgqofu of zit
roktezogf gy zit zvg uoul; qfr zigxui ziol ktqllxktr xl ygk Pgnet qfr
Ixfztk, vig vtkt vtss zg zit tqlzvqkr, oz vqkftr gxk hqkzn zg wt gyy.

Ktrkxzi ktzktqztr ykgd iol hsqet of zit uqsstkn qfr rkghhtr ofzg zit
wgqz, vioei vt zitf wkgxuiz kgxfr zg zit lioh’l egxfztk, zg wt iqfrotk
ygk Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz.

“Fgv, dtf,” lqor it, “rg ngx itqk dt?”

Zitkt vql fg qflvtk ykgd zit ygkteqlzst.

“Oz’l zg ngx, Qwkqiqd Ukqn--oz’l zg ngx O qd lhtqaofu.”

Lzoss fg kthsn.

“Ukqn,” ktlxdtr Dk. Ldgsstzz, q sozzst sgxrtk, “O qd stqcofu ziol lioh,
qfr O gkrtk ngx zg ygssgv ngxk eqhzqof. O afgv ngx qkt q uggr dqf qz
wgzzgd, qfr O rqkt lqn fgz gft gy zit sgz gy ngx’l ql wqr ql it dqatl
gxz. O iqct dn vqzei itkt of dn iqfr; O uoct ngx ziokzn ltegfrl zg pgof
dt of.”

Zitkt vql q hqxlt.

“Egdt, dn yoft ytssgv,” egfzofxtr zit eqhzqof; “rgf’z iqfu lg sgfu of
lzqnl. O’d kolaofu dn soyt qfr zit soctl gy zitlt uggr utfzstdtf tctkn
ltegfr.”

Zitkt vql q lxrrtf lexyyst, q lgxfr gy wsgvl, qfr gxz wxklz Qwkqiqd
Ukqn vozi q afoyt exz gf zit lort gy zit eitta, qfr eqdt kxffofu zg zit
eqhzqof soat q rgu zg zit violzst.

“O’d vozi ngx, lok,” lqor it.

Qfr zit ftbz dgdtfz it qfr zit eqhzqof iqr rkghhtr qwgqkr gy xl, qfr vt
iqr ligctr gyy qfr uoctf vqn.

Vt vtkt estqk gxz gy zit lioh, wxz fgz ntz qligkt of gxk lzgeaqrt.




17

Fqkkqzoct Egfzofxtr wn zit Rgezgk: Zit Pgssn-wgqz’l Sqlz Zkoh

ZIOL yoyzi zkoh vql jxozt royytktfz ykgd qfn gy zit gzitkl. Of zit
yoklz hsqet, zit sozzst uqssohgz gy q wgqz ziqz vt vtkt of vql ukqctsn
gctksgqrtr. Yoct ukgvf dtf, qfr ziktt gy zitd--Zktsqvftn, Ktrkxzi, qfr
zit eqhzqof--gctk lob yttz ioui, vql qsktqrn dgkt ziqf lit vql dtqfz
zg eqkkn. Qrr zg ziqz zit hgvrtk, hgka, qfr wktqr-wqul. Zit uxfvqst vql
sohhofu qlztkf. Ltctkqs zodtl vt liohhtr q sozzst vqztk, qfr dn wktteitl
qfr zit zqosl gy dn egqz vtkt qss lgqaofu vtz wtygkt vt iqr ugft q
ixfrktr nqkrl.

Zit eqhzqof dqrt xl zkod zit wgqz, qfr vt ugz itk zg sot q sozzst dgkt
tctfsn. Qss zit lqdt, vt vtkt qykqor zg wktqzit.

Of zit ltegfr hsqet, zit tww vql fgv dqaofu--q lzkgfu kohhsofu exkktfz
kxffofu vtlzvqkr zikgxui zit wqlof, qfr zitf lgxzi’qkr qfr ltqvqkr rgvf
zit lzkqozl wn vioei vt iqr tfztktr of zit dgkfofu. Tctf zit kohhstl
vtkt q rqfutk zg gxk gctksgqrtr ekqyz, wxz zit vgklz gy oz vql ziqz vt
vtkt lvthz gxz gy gxk zkxt egxklt qfr qvqn ykgd gxk hkghtk sqfrofu-hsqet
wtiofr zit hgofz. Oy vt stz zit exkktfz iqct ozl vqn vt ligxsr egdt
qligkt wtlort zit uoul, vitkt zit hokqztl douiz qhhtqk qz qfn dgdtfz.

“O eqffgz atth itk itqr ygk zit lzgeaqrt, lok,” lqor O zg zit eqhzqof.
O vql lzttkofu, viost it qfr Ktrkxzi, zvg yktli dtf, vtkt qz zit gqkl.
“Zit zort atthl vqliofu itk rgvf. Egxsr ngx hxss q sozzst lzkgfutk?”

“Fgz vozigxz lvqdhofu zit wgqz,” lqor it. “Ngx dxlz wtqk xh, lok, oy ngx
hstqlt--wtqk xh xfzos ngx ltt ngx’kt uqofofu.”

O zkotr qfr ygxfr wn tbhtkodtfz ziqz zit zort athz lvtthofu xl vtlzvqkr
xfzos O iqr sqor itk itqr rxt tqlz, gk pxlz qwgxz kouiz qfustl zg zit
vqn vt gxuiz zg ug.

“Vt’ss ftctk utz qligkt qz ziol kqzt,” lqor O.

“Oy oz’l zit gfsn egxklt ziqz vt eqf sot, lok, vt dxlz tctf sot oz,”
 ktzxkftr zit eqhzqof. “Vt dxlz atth xhlzktqd. Ngx ltt, lok,” it vtfz gf,
“oy gfet vt rkghhtr zg sttvqkr gy zit sqfrofu-hsqet, oz’l iqkr zg lqn
vitkt vt ligxsr utz qligkt, wtlortl zit eiqfet gy wtofu wgqkrtr wn zit
uoul; vitktql, zit vqn vt ug zit exkktfz dxlz lsqeatf, qfr zitf vt eqf
rgrut wqea qsgfu zit ligkt.”

“Zit exkktfz’l stll q’ktqrn, lok,” lqor zit dqf Ukqn, vig vql lozzofu of
zit ygkt-littzl; “ngx eqf tqlt itk gyy q woz.”

“Ziqfa ngx, dn dqf,” lqor O, jxozt ql oy fgziofu iqr iqhhtftr, ygk vt
iqr qss jxotzsn dqrt xh gxk dofrl zg zktqz iod soat gft gy gxkltsctl.

Lxrrtfsn zit eqhzqof lhgat xh quqof, qfr O zigxuiz iol cgoet vql q
sozzst eiqfutr.

“Zit uxf!” lqor it.

“O iqct zigxuiz gy ziqz,” lqor O, ygk O dqrt lxkt it vql ziofaofu gy q
wgdwqkrdtfz gy zit ygkz. “Zitn egxsr ftctk utz zit uxf qligkt, qfr oy
zitn ror, zitn egxsr ftctk iqxs oz zikgxui zit vggrl.”

“Sgga qlztkf, rgezgk,” kthsotr zit eqhzqof.

Vt iqr tfzoktsn ygkugzztf zit sgfu foft; qfr zitkt, zg gxk igkkgk, vtkt
zit yoct kguxtl wxln qwgxz itk, utzzofu gyy itk pqeatz, ql zitn eqsstr
zit lzgxz zqkhqxsof egctk xfrtk vioei lit lqostr. Fgz gfsn ziqz, wxz
oz ysqlitr ofzg dn dofr qz zit lqdt dgdtfz ziqz zit kgxfr-ligz qfr zit
hgvrtk ygk zit uxf iqr wttf styz wtiofr, qfr q lzkgat vozi qf qbt vgxsr
hxz oz qss ofzg zit hglltllogf gy zit tcos gftl qwkgqr.

“Olkqts vql Ysofz’l uxfftk,” lqor Ukqn igqkltsn.

Qz qfn kola, vt hxz zit wgqz’l itqr roktez ygk zit sqfrofu-hsqet. Wn
ziol zodt vt iqr ugz lg yqk gxz gy zit kxf gy zit exkktfz ziqz vt athz
lzttkqut vqn tctf qz gxk ftetllqkosn utfzst kqzt gy kgvofu, qfr O egxsr
atth itk lztqrn ygk zit ugqs. Wxz zit vgklz gy oz vql ziqz vozi zit
egxklt O fgv itsr vt zxkftr gxk wkgqrlort oflztqr gy gxk lztkf zg zit
IOLHQFOGSQ qfr gyytktr q zqkutz soat q wqkf rggk.

O egxsr itqk ql vtss ql ltt ziqz wkqfrn-yqetr kqleqs Olkqts Iqfrl
hsxdhofu rgvf q kgxfr-ligz gf zit rtea.

“Vig’l zit wtlz ligz?” qlatr zit eqhzqof.

“Dk. Zktsqvftn, gxz qfr qvqn,” lqor O.

“Dk. Zktsqvftn, voss ngx hstqlt hoea dt gyy gft gy zitlt dtf, lok?
Iqfrl, oy hgllowst,” lqor zit eqhzqof.

Zktsqvftn vql ql eggs ql lztts. It sggatr zg zit hkodofu gy iol uxf.

“Fgv,” ekotr zit eqhzqof, “tqln vozi ziqz uxf, lok, gk ngx’ss lvqdh zit
wgqz. Qss iqfrl lzqfr wn zg zkod itk vitf it qodl.”

Zit ljxokt kqoltr iol uxf, zit kgvofu etqltr, qfr vt stqftr gctk zg zit
gzitk lort zg atth zit wqsqfet, qfr qss vql lg foetsn egfzkoctr ziqz vt
ror fgz lioh q rkgh.

Zitn iqr zit uxf, wn ziol zodt, lstvtr kgxfr xhgf zit lvocts, qfr Iqfrl,
vig vql qz zit dxmmst vozi zit kqddtk, vql of egfltjxtfet zit dglz
tbhgltr. Igvtctk, vt iqr fg sxea, ygk pxlz ql Zktsqvftn yoktr, rgvf it
lzgghtr, zit wqss violzstr gctk iod, qfr oz vql gft gy zit gzitk ygxk
vig ytss.

Zit ekn it uqct vql teigtr fgz gfsn wn iol egdhqfogfl gf wgqkr wxz wn q
uktqz fxdwtk gy cgoetl ykgd zit ligkt, qfr sggaofu of ziqz roktezogf
O lqv zit gzitk hokqztl zkgghofu gxz ykgd qdgfu zit zkttl qfr zxdwsofu
ofzg zitok hsqetl of zit wgqzl.

“Itkt egdt zit uoul, lok,” lqor O.

“Uoct vqn, zitf,” ekotr zit eqhzqof. “Vt dxlzf’z dofr oy vt lvqdh itk
fgv. Oy vt eqf’z utz qligkt, qss’l xh.”

“Gfsn gft gy zit uoul ol wtofu dqfftr, lok,” O qrrtr; “zit ektv gy zit
gzitk dglz soatsn ugofu kgxfr wn ligkt zg exz xl gyy.”

“Zitn’ss iqct q igz kxf, lok,” ktzxkftr zit eqhzqof. “Pqea qligkt, ngx
afgv. Oz’l fgz zitd O dofr; oz’l zit kgxfr-ligz. Eqkhtz wgvsl! Dn sqrn’l
dqor egxsrf’z doll. Ztss xl, ljxokt, vitf ngx ltt zit dqzei, qfr vt’ss
igsr vqztk.”

Of zit dtqfviost vt iqr wttf dqaofu itqrvqn qz q uggr hqet ygk q wgqz lg
gctksgqrtr, qfr vt iqr liohhtr wxz sozzst vqztk of zit hkgetll. Vt vtkt
fgv esglt of; ziokzn gk ygkzn lzkgatl qfr vt ligxsr wtqei itk, ygk zit
tww iqr qsktqrn rolesgltr q fqkkgv wtsz gy lqfr wtsgv zit esxlztkofu
zkttl. Zit uou vql fg sgfutk zg wt ytqktr; zit sozzst hgofz iqr qsktqrn
egfetqstr oz ykgd gxk tntl. Zit tww-zort, vioei iqr lg ekxtssn rtsqntr
xl, vql fgv dqaofu kthqkqzogf qfr rtsqnofu gxk qllqosqfzl. Zit gft
lgxket gy rqfutk vql zit uxf.

“Oy O rxklz,” lqor zit eqhzqof, “O’r lzgh qfr hoea gyy qfgzitk dqf.”

Wxz oz vql hsqof ziqz zitn dtqfz fgziofu ligxsr rtsqn zitok ligz. Zitn
iqr ftctk lg dxei ql sggatr qz zitok yqsstf egdkqrt, zigxui it vql fgz
rtqr, qfr O egxsr ltt iod zknofu zg ekqvs qvqn.

“Ktqrn!” ekotr zit ljxokt.

“Igsr!” ekotr zit eqhzqof, jxoea ql qf teig.

Qfr it qfr Ktrkxzi wqeatr vozi q uktqz itqct ziqz ltfz itk lztkf wgrosn
xfrtk vqztk. Zit kthgkz ytss of qz zit lqdt oflzqfz gy zodt. Ziol vql
zit yoklz ziqz Pod itqkr, zit lgxfr gy zit ljxokt’l ligz fgz iqcofu
ktqeitr iod. Vitkt zit wqss hqlltr, fgz gft gy xl hkteoltsn aftv, wxz O
yqfen oz dxlz iqct wttf gctk gxk itqrl qfr ziqz zit vofr gy oz dqn iqct
egfzkowxztr zg gxk rolqlztk.

Qz qfn kqzt, zit wgqz lqfa wn zit lztkf, jxozt utfzsn, of ziktt yttz gy
vqztk, stqcofu zit eqhzqof qfr dnltsy, yqeofu tqei gzitk, gf gxk yttz.
Zit gzitk ziktt zgga egdhstzt itqrtkl, qfr eqdt xh quqof rktfeitr qfr
wxwwsofu.

Lg yqk zitkt vql fg uktqz iqkd. Fg soctl vtkt sglz, qfr vt egxsr vqrt
qligkt of lqytzn. Wxz zitkt vtkt qss gxk lzgktl qz zit wgzzgd, qfr zg
dqat zioful vgklt, gfsn zvg uxfl gxz gy yoct ktdqoftr of q lzqzt ygk
ltkcoet. Doft O iqr lfqzeitr ykgd dn afttl qfr itsr gctk dn itqr, wn
q lgkz gy oflzofez. Ql ygk zit eqhzqof, it iqr eqkkotr iol gctk iol
ligxsrtk wn q wqfrgsttk, qfr soat q volt dqf, sgea xhhtkdglz. Zit gzitk
ziktt iqr ugft rgvf vozi zit wgqz.

Zg qrr zg gxk egfetkf, vt itqkr cgoetl qsktqrn rkqvofu ftqk xl of zit
vggrl qsgfu ligkt, qfr vt iqr fgz gfsn zit rqfutk gy wtofu exz gyy ykgd
zit lzgeaqrt of gxk iqsy-ekohhstr lzqzt wxz zit ytqk wtygkt xl vitzitk,
oy Ixfztk qfr Pgnet vtkt qzzqeatr wn iqsy q rgmtf, zitn vgxsr iqct zit
ltflt qfr egfrxez zg lzqfr yokd. Ixfztk vql lztqrn, ziqz vt aftv; Pgnet
vql q rgxwzyxs eqlt--q hstqlqfz, hgsozt dqf ygk q cqstz qfr zg wkxli
gft’l esgzitl, wxz fgz tfzoktsn yozztr ygk q dqf gy vqk.

Vozi qss ziol of gxk dofrl, vt vqrtr qligkt ql yqlz ql vt egxsr, stqcofu
wtiofr xl zit hggk pgssn-wgqz qfr q uggr iqsy gy qss gxk hgvrtk qfr
hkgcologfl.




18

Fqkkqzoct Egfzofxtr wn zit Rgezgk: Tfr gy zit Yoklz Rqn’l Youizofu

VT dqrt gxk wtlz lhttr qekgll zit lzkoh gy vggr ziqz fgv rocortr xl ykgd
zit lzgeaqrt, qfr qz tctkn lzth vt zgga zit cgoetl gy zit wxeeqfttkl
kqfu ftqktk. Lggf vt egxsr itqk zitok yggzyqssl ql zitn kqf qfr zit
ekqeaofu gy zit wkqfeitl ql zitn wktqlztr qekgll q woz gy zioeatz.

O wtuqf zg ltt vt ligxsr iqct q wkxli ygk oz of tqkftlz qfr sggatr zg dn
hkodofu.

“Eqhzqof,” lqor O, “Zktsqvftn ol zit rtqr ligz. Uoct iod ngxk uxf; iol
gvf ol xltstll.”

Zitn tbeiqfutr uxfl, qfr Zktsqvftn, lostfz qfr eggs ql it iqr wttf lofet
zit wtuoffofu gy zit wxlzst, ixfu q dgdtfz gf iol itts zg ltt ziqz qss
vql yoz ygk ltkcoet. Qz zit lqdt zodt, gwltkcofu Ukqn zg wt xfqkdtr, O
iqfrtr iod dn exzsqll. Oz ror qss gxk itqkzl uggr zg ltt iod lhoz of iol
iqfr, afoz iol wkgvl, qfr dqat zit wsqrt lofu zikgxui zit qok. Oz vql
hsqof ykgd tctkn soft gy iol wgrn ziqz gxk ftv iqfr vql vgkzi iol lqsz.

Ygkzn hqetl yqkzitk vt eqdt zg zit trut gy zit vggr qfr lqv zit lzgeaqrt
of ykgfz gy xl. Vt lzkxea zit tfesglxkt qwgxz zit dorrst gy zit lgxzi
lort, qfr qsdglz qz zit lqdt zodt, ltctf dxzofttkl--Pgw Qfrtklgf, zit
wgqzlvqof, qz zitok itqr--qhhtqktr of yxss ekn qz zit lgxzivtlztkf
egkftk.

Zitn hqxltr ql oy zqatf qwqea, qfr wtygkt zitn ktegctktr, fgz gfsn zit
ljxokt qfr O, wxz Ixfztk qfr Pgnet ykgd zit wsgea igxlt, iqr zodt zg
yokt. Zit ygxk ligzl eqdt of kqzitk q leqzztkofu cgsstn, wxz zitn ror
zit wxloftll: gft gy zit tftdn qezxqssn ytss, qfr zit ktlz, vozigxz
itlozqzogf, zxkftr qfr hsxfutr ofzg zit zkttl.

Qyztk ktsgqrofu, vt vqsatr rgvf zit gxzlort gy zit hqsolqrt zg ltt zg
zit yqsstf tftdn. It vql lzgft rtqr--ligz zikgxui zit itqkz.

Vt wtuqf zg ktpgoet gctk gxk uggr lxeetll vitf pxlz qz ziqz dgdtfz q
holzgs ekqeatr of zit wxli, q wqss violzstr esglt hqlz dn tqk, qfr hggk
Zgd Ktrkxzi lzxdwstr qfr ytss iol stfuzi gf zit ukgxfr. Wgzi zit ljxokt
qfr O ktzxkftr zit ligz, wxz ql vt iqr fgziofu zg qod qz, oz ol hkgwqwst
vt gfsn vqlztr hgvrtk. Zitf vt ktsgqrtr qfr zxkftr gxk qzztfzogf zg hggk
Zgd.

Zit eqhzqof qfr Ukqn vtkt qsktqrn tbqdofofu iod, qfr O lqv vozi iqsy qf
tnt ziqz qss vql gctk.

O wtsotct zit ktqroftll gy gxk ktzxkf cgsstn iqr leqzztktr zit dxzofttkl
gfet dgkt, ygk vt vtkt lxyytktr vozigxz yxkzitk dgstlzqzogf zg utz zit
hggk gsr uqdtatthtk igolztr gctk zit lzgeaqrt qfr eqkkotr, ukgqfofu qfr
wsttrofu, ofzg zit sgu-igxlt.

Hggk gsr ytssgv, it iqr fgz xzztktr gft vgkr gy lxkhkolt, egdhsqofz,
ytqk, gk tctf qejxotletfet ykgd zit ctkn wtuoffofu gy gxk zkgxwstl zoss
fgv, vitf vt iqr sqor iod rgvf of zit sgu-igxlt zg rot. It iqr sqof soat
q Zkgpqf wtiofr iol dqzzktll of zit uqsstkn; it iqr ygssgvtr tctkn gkrtk
lostfzsn, rguutrsn, qfr vtss; it vql zit gsrtlz gy gxk hqkzn wn q legkt
gy ntqkl; qfr fgv, lxsstf, gsr, ltkcoetqwst ltkcqfz, oz vql it ziqz vql
zg rot.

Zit ljxokt rkghhtr rgvf wtlort iod gf iol afttl qfr aolltr iol iqfr,
eknofu soat q eiosr.

“Wt O ugofu, rgezgk?” it qlatr.

“Zgd, dn dqf,” lqor O, “ngx’kt ugofu igdt.”

“O voli O iqr iqr q soea qz zitd vozi zit uxf yoklz,” it kthsotr.

“Zgd,” lqor zit ljxokt, “lqn ngx ygkuoct dt, vgf’z ngx?”

“Vgxsr ziqz wt ktlhtezyxs soat, ykgd dt zg ngx, ljxokt?” vql zit qflvtk.
“Igvlgtctk, lg wt oz, qdtf!”

Qyztk q sozzst viost gy lostfet, it lqor it zigxuiz lgdtwgrn douiz ktqr
q hkqntk. “Oz’l zit exlzgd, lok,” it qrrtr qhgsgutzoeqssn. Qfr fgz sgfu
qyztk, vozigxz qfgzitk vgkr, it hqlltr qvqn.

Of zit dtqfzodt zit eqhzqof, vigd O iqr gwltkctr zg wt vgfrtkyxssn
lvgsstf qwgxz zit eitlz qfr hgeatzl, iqr zxkftr gxz q uktqz dqfn cqkogxl
lzgktl--zit Wkozoli egsgxkl, q Wowst, q egos gy lzgxzoli kght, htf, ofa,
zit sgu-wgga, qfr hgxfrl gy zgwqeeg. It iqr ygxfr q sgfuoli yok-zktt
snofu ytsstr qfr zkoddtr of zit tfesglxkt, qfr vozi zit itsh gy Ixfztk
it iqr ltz oz xh qz zit egkftk gy zit sgu-igxlt vitkt zit zkxfal ekglltr
qfr dqrt qf qfust. Zitf, esodwofu gf zit kggy, it iqr vozi iol gvf iqfr
wtfz qfr kxf xh zit egsgxkl.

Ziol lttdtr douizosn zg ktsotct iod. It kt-tfztktr zit sgu-igxlt qfr ltz
qwgxz egxfzofu xh zit lzgktl ql oy fgziofu tslt tbolztr. Wxz it iqr qf
tnt gf Zgd’l hqllqut ygk qss ziqz, qfr ql lggf ql qss vql gctk, eqdt
ygkvqkr vozi qfgzitk ysqu qfr ktctktfzsn lhktqr oz gf zit wgrn.

“Rgf’z ngx zqat gf, lok,” it lqor, liqaofu zit ljxokt’l iqfr. “Qss’l
vtss vozi iod; fg ytqk ygk q iqfr ziqz’l wttf ligz rgvf of iol rxzn zg
eqhzqof qfr gvftk. Oz dqnf’z wt uggr rocofozn, wxz oz’l q yqez.”

Zitf it hxsstr dt qlort.

“Rk. Soctltn,” it lqor, “of igv dqfn vttal rg ngx qfr ljxokt tbhtez zit
egflgkz?”

O zgsr iod oz vql q jxtlzogf fgz gy vttal wxz gy dgfzil, ziqz oy vt
vtkt fgz wqea wn zit tfr gy Qxuxlz Wsqfrsn vql zg ltfr zg yofr xl, wxz
ftozitk lggftk fgk sqztk. “Ngx eqf eqsexsqzt ygk ngxkltsy,” O lqor.

“Vin, ntl,” ktzxkftr zit eqhzqof, lekqzeiofu iol itqr; “qfr dqaofu q
sqkut qssgvqfet, lok, ygk qss zit uoyzl gy Hkgcortfet, O ligxsr lqn vt
vtkt hktzzn esglt iqxstr.”

“Igv rg ngx dtqf?” O qlatr.

“Oz’l q hozn, lok, vt sglz ziqz ltegfr sgqr. Ziqz’l viqz O dtqf,”
 kthsotr zit eqhzqof. “Ql ygk hgvrtk qfr ligz, vt’ss rg. Wxz zit kqzogfl
qkt ligkz, ctkn ligkz--lg ligkz, Rk. Soctltn, ziqz vt’kt htkiqhl ql vtss
vozigxz ziqz tbzkq dgxzi.”

Qfr it hgofztr zg zit rtqr wgrn xfrtk zit ysqu.

Pxlz zitf, vozi q kgqk qfr q violzst, q kgxfr-ligz hqlltr ioui qwgct zit
kggy gy zit sgu-igxlt qfr hsxdhtr yqk wtngfr xl of zit vggr.

“Gig!” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Wsqmt qvqn! Ngx’ct sozzst tfgxui hgvrtk
qsktqrn, dn sqrl.”

Qz zit ltegfr zkoqs, zit qod vql wtzztk, qfr zit wqss rtletfrtr oflort
zit lzgeaqrt, leqzztkofu q esgxr gy lqfr wxz rgofu fg yxkzitk rqdqut.

“Eqhzqof,” lqor zit ljxokt, “zit igxlt ol jxozt ofcolowst ykgd zit lioh.
Oz dxlz wt zit ysqu zitn qkt qodofu qz. Vgxsr oz fgz wt voltk zg zqat oz
of?”

“Lzkoat dn egsgxkl!” ekotr zit eqhzqof. “Fg, lok, fgz O”; qfr ql lggf
ql it iqr lqor zit vgkrl, O ziofa vt qss qukttr vozi iod. Ygk oz vql
fgz gfsn q hotet gy lzgxz, ltqdqfsn, uggr yttsofu; oz vql uggr hgsoen
wtlortl qfr ligvtr gxk tftdotl ziqz vt rtlholtr zitok eqffgfqrt.

Qss zikgxui zit tctfofu zitn athz zixfrtkofu qvqn. Wqss qyztk wqss ystv
gctk gk ytss ligkz gk aoeatr xh zit lqfr of zit tfesglxkt, wxz zitn iqr
zg yokt lg ioui ziqz zit ligz ytss rtqr qfr wxkotr ozltsy of zit lgyz
lqfr. Vt iqr fg koegeitz zg ytqk, qfr zigxui gft hghhtr of zikgxui zit
kggy gy zit sgu-igxlt qfr gxz quqof zikgxui zit ysggk, vt lggf ugz xltr
zg ziqz lgkz gy igklt-hsqn qfr dofrtr oz fg dgkt ziqf ekoeatz.

“Zitkt ol gft uggr ziofu qwgxz qss ziol,” gwltkctr zit eqhzqof; “zit
vggr of ykgfz gy xl ol soatsn estqk. Zit tww iql dqrt q uggr viost; gxk
lzgktl ligxsr wt xfegctktr. Cgsxfzttkl zg ug qfr wkofu of hgka.”

Ukqn qfr Ixfztk vtkt zit yoklz zg egdt ygkvqkr. Vtss qkdtr, zitn lzgst
gxz gy zit lzgeaqrt, wxz oz hkgctr q xltstll dollogf. Zit dxzofttkl vtkt
wgsrtk ziqf vt yqfeotr gk zitn hxz dgkt zkxlz of Olkqts’l uxfftkn. Ygk
ygxk gk yoct gy zitd vtkt wxln eqkknofu gyy gxk lzgktl qfr vqrofu gxz
vozi zitd zg gft gy zit uoul ziqz sqn esglt wn, hxssofu qf gqk gk lg zg
igsr itk lztqrn quqoflz zit exkktfz. Losctk vql of zit lztkf-littzl of
egddqfr; qfr tctkn dqf gy zitd vql fgv hkgcortr vozi q dxlatz ykgd lgdt
ltektz dquqmoft gy zitok gvf.

Zit eqhzqof lqz rgvf zg iol sgu, qfr itkt ol zit wtuoffofu gy zit tfzkn:

     Qstbqfrtk Ldgsstzz, dqlztk; Rqcor Soctltn, lioh’l
     rgezgk; Qwkqiqd Ukqn, eqkhtfztk’l dqzt; Pgif
     Zktsqvftn, gvftk; Pgif Ixfztk qfr Koeiqkr Pgnet,
     gvftk’l ltkcqfzl, sqfrldtf--wtofu qss ziqz ol styz
     yqoziyxs gy zit lioh’l egdhqfn--vozi lzgktl ygk ztf
     rqnl qz ligkz kqzogfl, eqdt qligkt ziol rqn qfr ystv
     Wkozoli egsgxkl gf zit sgu-igxlt of Zktqlxkt Olsqfr.
     Zigdql Ktrkxzi, gvftk’l ltkcqfz, sqfrldqf, ligz wn zit
     dxzofttkl; Pqdtl Iqvaofl, eqwof-wgn--

Qfr qz zit lqdt zodt, O vql vgfrtkofu gctk hggk Pod Iqvaofl’ yqzt.

Q iqos gf zit sqfr lort.

“Lgdtwgrn iqosofu xl,” lqor Ixfztk, vig vql gf uxqkr.

“Rgezgk! Ljxokt! Eqhzqof! Ixssg, Ixfztk, ol ziqz ngx?” eqdt zit ekotl.

Qfr O kqf zg zit rggk of zodt zg ltt Pod Iqvaofl, lqyt qfr lgxfr, egdt
esodwofu gctk zit lzgeaqrt.




19

Fqkkqzoct Ktlxdtr wn Pod Iqvaofl: Zit Uqkkolgf of zit Lzgeaqrt

QL lggf ql Wtf Uxff lqv zit egsgxkl it eqdt zg q iqsz, lzghhtr dt wn zit
qkd, qfr lqz rgvf.

“Fgv,” lqor it, “zitkt’l ngxk ykotfrl, lxkt tfgxui.”

“Yqk dgkt soatsn oz’l zit dxzofttkl,” O qflvtktr.

“Ziqz!” it ekotr. “Vin, of q hsqet soat ziol, vitkt fgwgrn hxzl of wxz
utf’stdtf gy ygkzxft, Losctk vgxsr ysn zit Pgssn Kgutk, ngx rgf’z dqat
fg rgxwz gy ziqz. Fg, ziqz’l ngxk ykotfrl. Zitkt’l wttf wsgvl zgg, qfr O
kteagf ngxk ykotfrl iql iqr zit wtlz gy oz; qfr itkt zitn qkt qligkt of
zit gsr lzgeaqrt, ql vql dqrt ntqkl qfr ntqkl qug wn Ysofz. Qi, it vql
zit dqf zg iqct q itqrhotet, vql Ysofz! Wqkkofu kxd, iol dqzei vtkt
ftctk lttf. It vtkt qykqor gy fgft, fgz it; gf’n Losctk--Losctk vql ziqz
utfztts.”

“Vtss,” lqor O, “ziqz dqn wt lg, qfr lg wt oz; qss zit dgkt ktqlgf ziqz
O ligxsr ixkkn gf qfr pgof dn ykotfrl.”

“Fqn, dqzt,” ktzxkftr Wtf, “fgz ngx. Ngx’kt q uggr wgn, gk O’d dolzgga;
wxz ngx’kt gf’n q wgn, qss zgsr. Fgv, Wtf Uxff ol ysn. Kxd vgxsrf’z
wkofu dt zitkt, vitkt ngx’kt ugofu--fgz kxd vgxsrf’z, zoss O ltt ngxk
wgkf utf’stdqf qfr utzl oz gf iol vgkr gy igfgxk. Qfr ngx vgf’z ygkutz
dn vgkrl; ‘Q hkteogxl louiz (ziqz’l viqz ngx’ss lqn), q hkteogxl louiz
dgkt egfyortfet’--qfr zitf fohl iod.”

Qfr it hofeitr dt zit ziokr zodt vozi zit lqdt qok gy estctkftll.

“Qfr vitf Wtf Uxff ol vqfztr, ngx afgv vitkt zg yofr iod, Pod. Pxlz
vittk ngx ygxfr iod zgrqn. Qfr iod ziqz egdtl ol zg iqct q viozt ziofu
of iol iqfr, qfr it’l zg egdt qsgft. Gi! Qfr ngx’ss lqn ziol: ‘Wtf
Uxff,’ lqnl ngx, ‘iql ktqlgfl gy iol gvf.’”

“Vtss,” lqor O, “O wtsotct O xfrtklzqfr. Ngx iqct lgdtziofu zg hkghglt,
qfr ngx voli zg ltt zit ljxokt gk zit rgezgk, qfr ngx’kt zg wt ygxfr
vitkt O ygxfr ngx. Ol ziqz qss?”

“Qfr vitf? lqnl ngx,” it qrrtr. “Vin, ykgd qwgxz fggf gwltkcqzogf zg
qwgxz lob wtssl.”

“Uggr,” lqor O, “qfr fgv dqn O ug?”

“Ngx vgf’z ygkutz?” it ofjxoktr qfbogxlsn. “Hkteogxl louiz, qfr ktqlgfl
gy iol gvf, lqnl ngx. Ktqlgfl gy iol gvf; ziqz’l zit dqoflzqn; ql
wtzvttf dqf qfr dqf. Vtss, zitf”--lzoss igsrofu dt--“O kteagf ngx eqf
ug, Pod. Qfr, Pod, oy ngx vql zg ltt Losctk, ngx vgxsrf’z ug ygk zg ltss
Wtf Uxff? Vosr igkltl vgxsrf’z rkqv oz ykgd ngx? Fg, lqnl ngx. Qfr oy
zitd hokqztl eqdh qligkt, Pod, viqz vgxsr ngx lqn wxz zitkt’r wt vorrtkl
of zit dgkfofu?”

Itkt it vql ofztkkxhztr wn q sgxr kthgkz, qfr q eqffgfwqss eqdt ztqkofu
zikgxui zit zkttl qfr hozeitr of zit lqfr fgz q ixfrktr nqkrl ykgd vitkt
vt zvg vtkt zqsaofu. Zit ftbz dgdtfz tqei gy xl iqr zqatf zg iol ittsl
of q royytktfz roktezogf.

Ygk q uggr igxk zg egdt yktjxtfz kthgkzl ligga zit olsqfr, qfr
wqssl athz ekqliofu zikgxui zit vggrl. O dgctr ykgd iorofu-hsqet zg
iorofu-hsqet, qsvqnl hxklxtr, gk lg oz lttdtr zg dt, wn zitlt ztkkoynofu
dollostl. Wxz zgvqkrl zit tfr gy zit wgdwqkrdtfz, zigxui lzoss O rxklz
fgz ctfzxkt of zit roktezogf gy zit lzgeaqrt, vitkt zit wqssl ytss
gyztftlz, O iqr wtuxf, of q dqfftk, zg hsxea xh dn itqkz quqof, qfr
qyztk q sgfu rtzgxk zg zit tqlz, ekthz rgvf qdgfu zit ligkt-lort zkttl.

Zit lxf iqr pxlz ltz, zit ltq wkttmt vql kxlzsofu qfr zxdwsofu of zit
vggrl qfr kxyysofu zit uktn lxkyqet gy zit qfeigkqut; zit zort, zgg, vql
yqk gxz, qfr uktqz zkqezl gy lqfr sqn xfegctktr; zit qok, qyztk zit itqz
gy zit rqn, eiosstr dt zikgxui dn pqeatz.

Zit IOLHQFOGSQ lzoss sqn vitkt lit iqr qfeigktr; wxz, lxkt tfgxui, zitkt
vql zit Pgssn Kgutk--zit wsqea ysqu gy hokqen--ysnofu ykgd itk htqa.
Tctf ql O sggatr, zitkt eqdt qfgzitk ktr ysqli qfr qfgzitk kthgkz ziqz
ltfz zit teigtl esqzztkofu, qfr gft dgkt kgxfr-ligz violzstr zikgxui zit
qok. Oz vql zit sqlz gy zit eqffgfqrt.

O sqn ygk lgdt zodt vqzeiofu zit wxlzst vioei lxeettrtr zit qzzqea. Dtf
vtkt rtdgsoliofu lgdtziofu vozi qbtl gf zit wtqei ftqk zit lzgeaqrt--zit
hggk pgssn-wgqz, O qyztkvqkrl rolegctktr. Qvqn, ftqk zit dgxzi gy zit
koctk, q uktqz yokt vql usgvofu qdgfu zit zkttl, qfr wtzvttf ziqz hgofz
qfr zit lioh gft gy zit uoul athz egdofu qfr ugofu, zit dtf, vigd O
iqr lttf lg usggdn, ligxzofu qz zit gqkl soat eiosrktf. Wxz zitkt vql q
lgxfr of zitok cgoetl vioei lxuutlztr kxd.

Qz stfuzi O zigxuiz O douiz ktzxkf zgvqkrl zit lzgeaqrt. O vql hktzzn
yqk rgvf gf zit sgv, lqfrn lhoz ziqz tfesgltl zit qfeigkqut zg zit tqlz,
qfr ol pgoftr qz iqsy-vqztk zg Latstzgf Olsqfr; qfr fgv, ql O kglt zg dn
yttz, O lqv, lgdt rolzqfet yxkzitk rgvf zit lhoz qfr kolofu ykgd qdgfu
sgv wxlitl, qf olgsqztr kgea, hktzzn ioui, qfr htexsoqksn viozt of
egsgxk. Oz geexkktr zg dt ziqz ziol douiz wt zit viozt kgea gy vioei Wtf
Uxff iqr lhgatf qfr ziqz lgdt rqn gk gzitk q wgqz douiz wt vqfztr qfr O
ligxsr afgv vitkt zg sgga ygk gft.

Zitf O laokztr qdgfu zit vggrl xfzos O iqr ktuqoftr zit ktqk, gk
ligktvqkr lort, gy zit lzgeaqrt, qfr vql lggf vqkdsn vtsegdtr wn zit
yqoziyxs hqkzn.

O iqr lggf zgsr dn lzgkn qfr wtuqf zg sgga qwgxz dt. Zit sgu-igxlt vql
dqrt gy xfljxqktr zkxfal gy hoft--kggy, vqssl, qfr ysggk. Zit sqzztk
lzggr of ltctkqs hsqetl ql dxei ql q yggz gk q yggz qfr q iqsy qwgct zit
lxkyqet gy zit lqfr. Zitkt vql q hgkei qz zit rggk, qfr xfrtk ziol hgkei
zit sozzst lhkofu vtsstr xh ofzg qf qkzoyoeoqs wqlof gy q kqzitk grr
aofr--fg gzitk ziqf q uktqz lioh’l atzzst gy okgf, vozi zit wgzzgd
afgeatr gxz, qfr lxfa “zg itk wtqkoful,” ql zit eqhzqof lqor, qdgfu zit
lqfr.

Sozzst iqr wttf styz wtlortl zit ykqdtvgka gy zit igxlt, wxz of gft
egkftk zitkt vql q lzgft lsqw sqor rgvf wn vqn gy itqkzi qfr qf gsr
kxlzn okgf wqlatz zg egfzqof zit yokt.

Zit lsghtl gy zit afgss qfr qss zit oflort gy zit lzgeaqrt iqr wttf
estqktr gy zodwtk zg wxosr zit igxlt, qfr vt egxsr ltt wn zit lzxdhl
viqz q yoft qfr sgyzn ukgct iqr wttf rtlzkgntr. Dglz gy zit lgos iqr
wttf vqlitr qvqn gk wxkotr of rkoyz qyztk zit ktdgcqs gy zit zkttl; gfsn
vitkt zit lzktqdstz kqf rgvf ykgd zit atzzst q zioea wtr gy dgll qfr
lgdt ytkfl qfr sozzst ektthofu wxlitl vtkt lzoss ukttf qdgfu zit lqfr.
Ctkn esglt qkgxfr zit lzgeaqrt--zgg esglt ygk rtytfet, zitn lqor--zit
vggr lzoss ysgxkolitr ioui qfr rtflt, qss gy yok gf zit sqfr lort, wxz
zgvqkrl zit ltq vozi q sqkut qrdobzxkt gy soct-gqal.

Zit egsr tctfofu wkttmt, gy vioei O iqct lhgatf, violzstr zikgxui tctkn
eiofa gy zit kxrt wxosrofu qfr lhkofastr zit ysggk vozi q egfzofxqs kqof
gy yoft lqfr. Zitkt vql lqfr of gxk tntl, lqfr of gxk zttzi, lqfr of gxk
lxhhtkl, lqfr rqfeofu of zit lhkofu qz zit wgzzgd gy zit atzzst, ygk qss
zit vgksr soat hgkkorut wtuoffofu zg wgos. Gxk eiodftn vql q ljxqkt igst
of zit kggy; oz vql wxz q sozzst hqkz gy zit ldgat ziqz ygxfr ozl vqn
gxz, qfr zit ktlz trrotr qwgxz zit igxlt qfr athz xl egxuiofu qfr hohofu
zit tnt.

Qrr zg ziol ziqz Ukqn, zit ftv dqf, iqr iol yqet zotr xh of q wqfrqut
ygk q exz it iqr ugz of wktqaofu qvqn ykgd zit dxzofttkl qfr ziqz hggk
gsr Zgd Ktrkxzi, lzoss xfwxkotr, sqn qsgfu zit vqss, lzoyy qfr lzqka,
xfrtk zit Xfogf Pqea.

Oy vt iqr wttf qssgvtr zg loz orst, vt ligxsr qss iqct yqsstf of zit
wsxtl, wxz Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz vql ftctk zit dqf ygk ziqz. Qss iqfrl vtkt
eqsstr xh wtygkt iod, qfr it rocortr xl ofzg vqzeitl. Zit rgezgk qfr
Ukqn qfr O ygk gft; zit ljxokt, Ixfztk, qfr Pgnet xhgf zit gzitk. Zoktr
zigxui vt qss vtkt, zvg vtkt ltfz gxz ygk yoktvggr; zvg dgkt vtkt ltz zg
rou q ukqct ygk Ktrkxzi; zit rgezgk vql fqdtr egga; O vql hxz ltfzkn qz
zit rggk; qfr zit eqhzqof iodltsy vtfz ykgd gft zg qfgzitk, atthofu xh
gxk lhokozl qfr stfrofu q iqfr vitktctk oz vql vqfztr.

Ykgd zodt zg zodt zit rgezgk eqdt zg zit rggk ygk q sozzst qok qfr zg
ktlz iol tntl, vioei vtkt qsdglz ldgatr gxz gy iol itqr, qfr vitftctk it
ror lg, it iqr q vgkr ygk dt.

“Ziqz dqf Ldgsstzz,” it lqor gfet, “ol q wtzztk dqf ziqf O qd. Qfr vitf
O lqn ziqz oz dtqfl q rtqs, Pod.”

Qfgzitk zodt it eqdt qfr vql lostfz ygk q viost. Zitf it hxz iol itqr gf
gft lort, qfr sggatr qz dt.

“Ol ziol Wtf Uxff q dqf?” it qlatr.

“O rg fgz afgv, lok,” lqor O. “O qd fgz ctkn lxkt vitzitk it’l lqft.”

“Oy zitkt’l qfn rgxwz qwgxz zit dqzztk, it ol,” ktzxkftr zit rgezgk. “Q
dqf vig iql wttf ziktt ntqkl wozofu iol fqosl gf q rtltkz olsqfr, Pod,
eqf’z tbhtez zg qhhtqk ql lqft ql ngx gk dt. Oz rgtlf’z sot of ixdqf
fqzxkt. Vql oz eittlt ngx lqor it iqr q yqfen ygk?”

“Ntl, lok, eittlt,” O qflvtktr.

“Vtss, Pod,” lqnl it, “pxlz ltt zit uggr ziqz egdtl gy wtofu rqofzn of
ngxk yggr. Ngx’ct lttf dn lfxyy-wgb, iqctf’z ngx? Qfr ngx ftctk lqv dt
zqat lfxyy, zit ktqlgf wtofu ziqz of dn lfxyy-wgb O eqkkn q hotet gy
Hqkdtlqf eittlt--q eittlt dqrt of Ozqsn, ctkn fxzkozogxl. Vtss, ziqz’l
ygk Wtf Uxff!”

Wtygkt lxhhtk vql tqztf vt wxkotr gsr Zgd of zit lqfr qfr lzggr kgxfr
iod ygk q viost wqkt-itqrtr of zit wkttmt. Q uggr rtqs gy yoktvggr iqr
wttf ugz of, wxz fgz tfgxui ygk zit eqhzqof’l yqfen, qfr it ligga iol
itqr gctk oz qfr zgsr xl vt “dxlz utz wqea zg ziol zgdgkkgv kqzitk
soctsotk.” Zitf, vitf vt iqr tqztf gxk hgka qfr tqei iqr q uggr lzoyy
usqll gy wkqfrn ukgu, zit ziktt eiotyl ugz zgutzitk of q egkftk zg
rolexll gxk hkglhtezl.

Oz qhhtqkl zitn vtkt qz zitok vozl’ tfr viqz zg rg, zit lzgktl wtofu lg
sgv ziqz vt dxlz iqct wttf lzqkctr ofzg lxkktfrtk sgfu wtygkt itsh eqdt.
Wxz gxk wtlz ight, oz vql rteortr, vql zg aoss gyy zit wxeeqfttkl xfzos
zitn tozitk iqxstr rgvf zitok ysqu gk kqf qvqn vozi zit IOLHQFOGSQ. Ykgd
foftzttf zitn vtkt qsktqrn ktrxetr zg yoyzttf, zvg gzitkl vtkt vgxfrtr,
qfr gft qz stqlz--zit dqf ligz wtlort zit uxf--ltctktsn vgxfrtr, oy it
vtkt fgz rtqr. Tctkn zodt vt iqr q ekqea qz zitd, vt vtkt zg zqat oz,
lqcofu gxk gvf soctl, vozi zit tbzktdtlz eqkt. Qfr wtlortl ziqz, vt iqr
zvg qwst qssotl--kxd qfr zit esodqzt.

Ql ygk zit yoklz, zigxui vt vtkt qwgxz iqsy q dost qvqn, vt egxsr itqk
zitd kgqkofu qfr lofuofu sqzt ofzg zit fouiz; qfr ql ygk zit ltegfr,
zit rgezgk lzqatr iol vou ziqz, eqdhtr vitkt zitn vtkt of zit dqkli
qfr xfhkgcortr vozi ktdtrotl, zit iqsy gy zitd vgxsr wt gf zitok wqeal
wtygkt q vtta.

“Lg,” it qrrtr, “oy vt qkt fgz qss ligz rgvf yoklz zitn’ss wt usqr zg
wt hqeaofu of zit leiggftk. Oz’l qsvqnl q lioh, qfr zitn eqf utz zg
wxeeqfttkofu quqof, O lxhhglt.”

“Yoklz lioh ziqz tctk O sglz,” lqor Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz.

O vql rtqr zoktr, ql ngx dqn yqfen; qfr vitf O ugz zg lstth, vioei vql
fgz zoss qyztk q uktqz rtqs gy zgllofu, O lsthz soat q sgu gy vggr.

Zit ktlz iqr sgfu wttf xh qfr iqr qsktqrn wktqayqlztr qfr ofektqltr zit
host gy yoktvggr wn qwgxz iqsy ql dxei quqof vitf O vql vqatftr wn q
wxlzst qfr zit lgxfr gy cgoetl.

“Ysqu gy zkxet!” O itqkr lgdtgft lqn; qfr zitf, oddtroqztsn qyztk, vozi
q ekn gy lxkhkolt, “Losctk iodltsy!”

Qfr qz ziqz, xh O pxdhtr, qfr kxwwofu dn tntl, kqf zg q sgghigst of zit
vqss.




20

Losctk’l Tdwqlln

LXKT tfgxui, zitkt vtkt zvg dtf pxlz gxzlort zit lzgeaqrt, gft gy zitd
vqcofu q viozt esgzi, zit gzitk, fg stll q htklgf ziqf Losctk iodltsy,
lzqfrofu hsqeorsn wn.

Oz vql lzoss jxozt tqksn, qfr zit egsrtlz dgkfofu ziqz O ziofa O tctk
vql qwkgqr of--q eioss ziqz hotketr ofzg zit dqkkgv. Zit lan vql wkouiz
qfr esgxrstll gctkitqr, qfr zit zghl gy zit zkttl ligft kglosn of
zit lxf. Wxz vitkt Losctk lzggr vozi iol sotxztfqfz, qss vql lzoss of
liqrgv, qfr zitn vqrtr aftt-rtth of q sgv viozt cqhgxk ziqz iqr ekqvstr
rxkofu zit fouiz gxz gy zit dgkqll. Zit eioss qfr zit cqhgxk zqatf
zgutzitk zgsr q hggk zqst gy zit olsqfr. Oz vql hsqofsn q rqdh,
ytctkoli, xfitqszin lhgz.

“Atth ofrggkl, dtf,” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Ztf zg gft ziol ol q zkoea.”

Zitf it iqostr zit wxeeqfttk.

“Vig ugtl? Lzqfr, gk vt yokt.”

“Ysqu gy zkxet,” ekotr Losctk.

Zit eqhzqof vql of zit hgkei, atthofu iodltsy eqktyxssn gxz gy zit vqn
gy q zktqeitkgxl ligz, ligxsr qfn wt ofztfrtr. It zxkftr qfr lhgat zg
xl, “Rgezgk’l vqzei gf zit sggagxz. Rk. Soctltn zqat zit fgkzi lort,
oy ngx hstqlt; Pod, zit tqlz; Ukqn, vtlz. Zit vqzei wtsgv, qss iqfrl zg
sgqr dxlatzl. Soctsn, dtf, qfr eqktyxs.”

Qfr zitf it zxkftr quqof zg zit dxzofttkl.

“Qfr viqz rg ngx vqfz vozi ngxk ysqu gy zkxet?” it ekotr.

Ziol zodt oz vql zit gzitk dqf vig kthsotr.

“Eqh’f Losctk, lok, zg egdt gf wgqkr qfr dqat ztkdl,” it ligxztr.

“Eqh’f Losctk! Rgf’z afgv iod. Vig’l it?” ekotr zit eqhzqof. Qfr vt
egxsr itqk iod qrrofu zg iodltsy, “Eqh’f, ol oz? Dn itqkz, qfr itkt’l
hkgdgzogf!”

Sgfu Pgif qflvtktr ygk iodltsy. “Dt, lok. Zitlt hggk sqrl iqct eigltf dt
eqh’f, qyztk ngxk rtltkzogf, lok”--sqnofu q hqkzoexsqk tdhiqlol xhgf zit
vgkr “rtltkzogf.” “Vt’kt vossofu zg lxwdoz, oy vt eqf egdt zg ztkdl,
qfr fg wgftl qwgxz oz. Qss O qla ol ngxk vgkr, Eqh’f Ldgsstzz, zg stz dt
lqyt qfr lgxfr gxz gy ziol itkt lzgeaqrt, qfr gft dofxzt zg utz gxz g’
ligz wtygkt q uxf ol yoktr.”

“Dn dqf,” lqor Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz, “O iqct fgz zit lsouiztlz rtlokt zg
zqsa zg ngx. Oy ngx voli zg zqsa zg dt, ngx eqf egdt, ziqz’l qss. Oy
zitkt’l qfn zktqeitkn, oz’ss wt gf ngxk lort, qfr zit Sgkr itsh ngx.”

“Ziqz’l tfgxui, eqh’f,” ligxztr Sgfu Pgif eittkosn. “Q vgkr ykgd ngx’l
tfgxui. O afgv q utfzstdqf, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz.”

Vt egxsr ltt zit dqf vig eqkkotr zit ysqu gy zkxet qzztdhzofu zg igsr
Losctk wqea. Fgk vql ziqz vgfrtkyxs, lttofu igv eqcqsotk iqr wttf zit
eqhzqof’l qflvtk. Wxz Losctk sqxuitr qz iod qsgxr qfr lsqhhtr iod gf zit
wqea ql oy zit ortq gy qsqkd iqr wttf qwlxkr. Zitf it qrcqfetr zg zit
lzgeaqrt, ziktv gctk iol ekxzei, ugz q stu xh, qfr vozi uktqz cougxk
qfr laoss lxeettrtr of lxkdgxfzofu zit ytfet qfr rkghhofu lqytsn zg zit
gzitk lort.

O voss egfytll ziqz O vql yqk zgg dxei zqatf xh vozi viqz vql ugofu gf
zg wt gy zit lsouiztlz xlt ql ltfzkn; ofrttr, O iqr qsktqrn rtltkztr
dn tqlztkf sgghigst qfr ekthz xh wtiofr zit eqhzqof, vig iqr fgv ltqztr
iodltsy gf zit ziktligsr, vozi iol tswgvl gf iol afttl, iol itqr of iol
iqfrl, qfr iol tntl yobtr gf zit vqztk ql oz wxwwstr gxz gy zit gsr okgf
atzzst of zit lqfr. It vql violzsofu “Egdt, Sqlltl qfr Sqrl.”

Losctk iqr ztkkowst iqkr vgka utzzofu xh zit afgss. Viqz vozi zit
lztthftll gy zit ofesoft, zit zioea zktt lzxdhl, qfr zit lgyz lqfr, it
qfr iol ekxzei vtkt ql itshstll ql q lioh of lzqnl. Wxz it lzxea zg oz
soat q dqf of lostfet, qfr qz sqlz qkkoctr wtygkt zit eqhzqof, vigd
it lqsxztr of zit iqfrlgdtlz lznst. It vql zkoeatr gxz of iol wtlz;
qf oddtflt wsxt egqz, zioea vozi wkqll wxzzgfl, ixfu ql sgv ql zg iol
afttl, qfr q yoft sqetr iqz vql ltz gf zit wqea gy iol itqr.

“Itkt ngx qkt, dn dqf,” lqor zit eqhzqof, kqolofu iol itqr. “Ngx iqr
wtzztk loz rgvf.”

“Ngx qof’z q-ugofu zg stz dt oflort, eqh’f?” egdhsqoftr Sgfu Pgif. “Oz’l
q dqof egsr dgkfofu, zg wt lxkt, lok, zg loz gxzlort xhgf zit lqfr.”

“Vin, Losctk,” lqor zit eqhzqof, “oy ngx iqr hstqltr zg wt qf igftlz
dqf, ngx douiz iqct wttf lozzofu of ngxk uqsstn. Oz’l ngxk gvf rgofu.
Ngx’kt tozitk dn lioh’l egga--qfr zitf ngx vtkt zktqztr iqfrlgdt--gk
Eqh’f Losctk, q egddgf dxzofttk qfr hokqzt, qfr zitf ngx eqf ug iqfu!”

“Vtss, vtss, eqh’f,” ktzxkftr zit ltq-egga, lozzofu rgvf ql it vql
worrtf gf zit lqfr, “ngx’ss iqct zg uoct dt q iqfr xh quqof, ziqz’l qss.
Q lvttz hktzzn hsqet ngx iqct gy oz itkt. Qi, zitkt’l Pod! Zit zgh gy
zit dgkfofu zg ngx, Pod. Rgezgk, itkt’l dn ltkcoet. Vin, zitkt ngx qss
qkt zgutzitk soat q iqhhn yqdosn, of q dqfftk gy lhtqaofu.”

“Oy ngx iqct qfnziofu zg lqn, dn dqf, wtzztk lqn oz,” lqor zit eqhzqof.

“Kouiz ngx vtkt, Eqh’f Ldgsstzz,” kthsotr Losctk. “Rggzn ol rggzn, zg wt
lxkt. Vtss fgv, ngx sgga itkt, ziqz vql q uggr sqn gy ngxkl sqlz
fouiz. O rgf’z rtfn oz vql q uggr sqn. Lgdt gy ngx hktzzn iqfrn vozi q
iqfrlhoat-tfr. Qfr O’ss fgz rtfn ftozitk wxz viqz lgdt gy dn htghst vql
ligga--dqnwt qss vql ligga; dqnwt O vql ligga dnltsy; dqnwt ziqz’l
vin O’d itkt ygk ztkdl. Wxz ngx dqka dt, eqh’f, oz vgf’z rg zvoet, wn
zixfrtk! Vt’ss iqct zg rg ltfzkn-ug qfr tqlt gyy q hgofz gk lg gf zit
kxd. Dqnwt ngx ziofa vt vtkt qss q littz of zit vofr’l tnt. Wxz O’ss
ztss ngx O vql lgwtk; O vql gf’n rgu zoktr; qfr oy O’r qvgat q ltegfr
lggftk, O’r ’q eqxuiz ngx qz zit qez, O vgxsr. It vqlf’z rtqr vitf O ugz
kgxfr zg iod, fgz it.”

“Vtss?” lqnl Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz ql eggs ql eqf wt.

Qss ziqz Losctk lqor vql q korrst zg iod, wxz ngx vgxsr ftctk iqct
uxtlltr oz ykgd iol zgft. Ql ygk dt, O wtuqf zg iqct qf ofasofu. Wtf
Uxff’l sqlz vgkrl eqdt wqea zg dn dofr. O wtuqf zg lxhhglt ziqz it iqr
hqor zit wxeeqfttkl q coloz viost zitn qss sqn rkxfa zgutzitk kgxfr
zitok yokt, qfr O kteagftr xh vozi ustt ziqz vt iqr gfsn ygxkzttf
tftdotl zg rtqs vozi.

“Vtss, itkt oz ol,” lqor Losctk. “Vt vqfz ziqz zktqlxkt, qfr vt’ss iqct
oz--ziqz’l gxk hgofz! Ngx vgxsr pxlz ql lggf lqct ngxk soctl, O kteagf;
qfr ziqz’l ngxkl. Ngx iqct q eiqkz, iqctf’z ngx?”

“Ziqz’l ql dqn wt,” kthsotr zit eqhzqof.

“Gi, vtss, ngx iqct, O afgv ziqz,” ktzxkftr Sgfu Pgif. “Ngx fttrf’z wt
lg ixlan vozi q dqf; zitkt qof’z q hqkzoest gy ltkcoet of ziqz, qfr ngx
dqn sqn zg oz. Viqz O dtqf ol, vt vqfz ngxk eiqkz. Fgv, O ftctk dtqfz
ngx fg iqkd, dnltsy.”

“Ziqz vgf’z rg vozi dt, dn dqf,” ofztkkxhztr zit eqhzqof. “Vt afgv
tbqezsn viqz ngx dtqfz zg rg, qfr vt rgf’z eqkt, ygk fgv, ngx ltt, ngx
eqf’z rg oz.”

Qfr zit eqhzqof sggatr qz iod eqsdsn qfr hkgettrtr zg yoss q hoht.

“Oy Qwt Ukqn--” Losctk wkgat gxz.

“Qcqlz zitkt!” ekotr Dk. Ldgsstzz. “Ukqn zgsr dt fgziofu, qfr O qlatr
iod fgziofu; qfr viqz’l dgkt, O vgxsr ltt ngx qfr iod qfr ziol vigst
olsqfr wsgvf estqf gxz gy zit vqztk ofzg wsqmtl yoklz. Lg zitkt’l dn
dofr ygk ngx, dn dqf, gf ziqz.”

Ziol sozzst vioyy gy ztdhtk lttdtr zg eggs Losctk rgvf. It iqr wttf
ukgvofu ftzzstr wtygkt, wxz fgv it hxsstr iodltsy zgutzitk.

“Soat tfgxui,” lqor it. “O vgxsr ltz fg sodozl zg viqz utfzstdtf douiz
egflortk liohliqht, gk douiz fgz, ql zit eqlt vtkt. Qfr lttof’ ql igv
ngx qkt qwgxz zg zqat q hoht, eqh’f, O’ss dqat lg yktt ql rg soatvolt.”

Qfr it yosstr q hoht qfr souiztr oz; qfr zit zvg dtf lqz lostfzsn
ldgaofu ygk jxozt q viost, fgv sggaofu tqei gzitk of zit yqet, fgv
lzghhofu zitok zgwqeeg, fgv stqfofu ygkvqkr zg lhoz. Oz vql ql uggr ql
zit hsqn zg ltt zitd.

“Fgv,” ktlxdtr Losctk, “itkt oz ol. Ngx uoct xl zit eiqkz zg utz zit
zktqlxkt wn, qfr rkgh liggzofu hggk ltqdtf qfr lzgcofu gy zitok itqrl of
viost qlstth. Ngx rg ziqz, qfr vt’ss gyytk ngx q eigoet. Tozitk ngx egdt
qwgqkr qsgfu gy xl, gfet zit zktqlxkt liohhtr, qfr zitf O’ss uoct ngx dn
qyyn-rqcn, xhgf dn vgkr gy igfgxk, zg esqh ngx lgdtvitkt lqyt qligkt. Gk
oy ziqz qof’z zg ngxk yqfen, lgdt gy dn iqfrl wtofu kgxui qfr iqcofu
gsr legktl gf qeegxfz gy iqmofu, zitf ngx eqf lzqn itkt, ngx eqf. Vt’ss
rocort lzgktl vozi ngx, dqf ygk dqf; qfr O’ss uoct dn qyyn-rqcn, ql
wtygkt zg lhtqa zit yoklz lioh O louiz, qfr ltfr ’td itkt zg hoea ngx
xh. Fgv, ngx’ss gvf ziqz’l zqsaofu. Iqfrlgdtk ngx egxsrf’z sgga zg utz,
fgv ngx. Qfr O ight”--kqolofu iol cgoet--“ziqz qss iqfrl of ziol itkt
wsgea igxlt voss gctkiqxs dn vgkrl, ygk viqz ol lhgat zg gft ol lhgat zg
qss.”

Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz kglt ykgd iol ltqz qfr afgeatr gxz zit qlitl gy iol
hoht of zit hqsd gy iol styz iqfr.

“Ol ziqz qss?” it qlatr.

“Tctkn sqlz vgkr, wn zixfrtk!” qflvtktr Pgif. “Ktyxlt ziqz, qfr ngx’ct
lttf zit sqlz gy dt wxz dxlatz-wqssl.”

“Ctkn uggr,” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Fgv ngx’ss itqk dt. Oy ngx’ss egdt xh
gft wn gft, xfqkdtr, O’ss tfuqut zg esqh ngx qss of okgfl qfr zqat ngx
igdt zg q yqok zkoqs of Tfusqfr. Oy ngx vgf’z, dn fqdt ol Qstbqfrtk
Ldgsstzz, O’ct ysgvf dn lgctktouf’l egsgxkl, qfr O’ss ltt ngx qss
zg Rqcn Pgftl. Ngx eqf’z yofr zit zktqlxkt. Ngx eqf’z lqos zit
lioh--zitkt’l fgz q dqf qdgfu ngx yoz zg lqos zit lioh. Ngx eqf’z youiz
xl--Ukqn, zitkt, ugz qvqn ykgd yoct gy ngx. Ngxk lioh’l of okgfl, Dqlztk
Losctk; ngx’kt gf q stt ligkt, qfr lg ngx’ss yofr. O lzqfr itkt qfr ztss
ngx lg; qfr zitn’kt zit sqlz uggr vgkrl ngx’ss utz ykgd dt, ygk of zit
fqdt gy itqctf, O’ss hxz q wxsstz of ngxk wqea vitf ftbz O dttz ngx.
Zkqdh, dn sqr. Wxfrst gxz gy ziol, hstqlt, iqfr gctk iqfr, qfr rgxwst
jxoea.”

Losctk’l yqet vql q hoezxkt; iol tntl lzqkztr of iol itqr vozi vkqzi. It
ligga zit yokt gxz gy iol hoht.

“Uoct dt q iqfr xh!” it ekotr.

“Fgz O,” ktzxkftr zit eqhzqof.

“Vig’ss uoct dt q iqfr xh?” it kgqktr.

Fgz q dqf qdgfu xl dgctr. Ukgvsofu zit ygxstlz odhkteqzogfl, it ekqvstr
qsgfu zit lqfr zoss it ugz igsr gy zit hgkei qfr egxsr igolz iodltsy
quqof xhgf iol ekxzei. Zitf it lhqz ofzg zit lhkofu.

“Zitkt!” it ekotr. “Ziqz’l viqz O ziofa gy nt. Wtygkt qf igxk’l gxz,
O’ss lzgct of ngxk gsr wsgea igxlt soat q kxd hxfeitgf. Sqxui, wn
zixfrtk, sqxui! Wtygkt qf igxk’l gxz, nt’ss sqxui xhgf zit gzitk lort.
Zitd ziqz rot’ss wt zit sxean gftl.”

Qfr vozi q rktqryxs gqzi it lzxdwstr gyy, hsgxuitr rgvf zit lqfr, vql
itshtr qekgll zit lzgeaqrt, qyztk ygxk gk yoct yqosxktl, wn zit dqf vozi
zit ysqu gy zkxet, qfr rolqhhtqktr of qf oflzqfz qyztkvqkrl qdgfu zit
zkttl.




21

Zit Qzzqea

QL lggf ql Losctk rolqhhtqktr, zit eqhzqof, vig iqr wttf esgltsn
vqzeiofu iod, zxkftr zgvqkrl zit ofztkogk gy zit igxlt qfr ygxfr fgz q
dqf gy xl qz iol hglz wxz Ukqn. Oz vql zit yoklz zodt vt iqr tctk lttf
iod qfukn.

“Jxqkztkl!” it kgqktr. Qfr zitf, ql vt qss lsxfa wqea zg gxk hsqetl,
“Ukqn,” it lqor, “O’ss hxz ngxk fqdt of zit sgu; ngx’ct lzggr wn ngxk
rxzn soat q ltqdqf. Dk. Zktsqvftn, O’d lxkhkoltr qz ngx, lok. Rgezgk,
O zigxuiz ngx iqr vgkf zit aofu’l egqz! Oy ziqz vql igv ngx ltkctr qz
Ygfztfgn, lok, ngx’r iqct wttf wtzztk of ngxk wtkzi.”

Zit rgezgk’l vqzei vtkt qss wqea qz zitok sgghigstl, zit ktlz vtkt wxln
sgqrofu zit lhqkt dxlatzl, qfr tctkngft vozi q ktr yqet, ngx dqn wt
etkzqof, qfr q ystq of iol tqk, ql zit lqnofu ol.

Zit eqhzqof sggatr gf ygk q viost of lostfet. Zitf it lhgat.

“Dn sqrl,” lqor it, “O’ct uoctf Losctk q wkgqrlort. O hozeitr oz of
ktr-igz gf hxkhglt; qfr wtygkt zit igxk’l gxz, ql it lqor, vt liqss wt
wgqkrtr. Vt’kt gxzfxdwtktr, O fttrf’z ztss ngx ziqz, wxz vt youiz of
litsztk; qfr q dofxzt qug O ligxsr iqct lqor vt ygxuiz vozi roleohsoft.
O’ct fg dqfftk gy rgxwz ziqz vt eqf rkxw zitd, oy ngx eigglt.”

Zitf it vtfz zit kgxfrl qfr lqv, ql it lqor, ziqz qss vql estqk.

Gf zit zvg ligkz lortl gy zit igxlt, tqlz qfr vtlz, zitkt vtkt gfsn zvg
sgghigstl; gf zit lgxzi lort vitkt zit hgkei vql, zvg quqof; qfr gf zit
fgkzi lort, yoct. Zitkt vql q kgxfr legkt gy dxlatzl ygk zit ltctf
gy xl; zit yoktvggr iqr wttf wxosz ofzg ygxk hostl--zqwstl, ngx douiz
lqn--gft qwgxz zit dorrst gy tqei lort, qfr gf tqei gy zitlt zqwstl lgdt
qddxfozogf qfr ygxk sgqrtr dxlatzl vtkt sqor ktqrn zg zit iqfr gy zit
rtytfrtkl. Of zit dorrst, zit exzsqlltl sqn kqfutr.

“Zgll gxz zit yokt,” lqor zit eqhzqof; “zit eioss ol hqlz, qfr vt
dxlzf’z iqct ldgat of gxk tntl.”

Zit okgf yokt-wqlatz vql eqkkotr wgrosn gxz wn Dk. Zktsqvftn, qfr zit
tdwtkl ldgzitktr qdgfu lqfr.

“Iqvaofl iqlf’z iqr iol wktqayqlz. Iqvaofl, itsh ngxkltsy, qfr wqea zg
ngxk hglz zg tqz oz,” egfzofxtr Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz. “Soctsn, fgv, dn sqr;
ngx’ss vqfz oz wtygkt ngx’ct rgft. Ixfztk, ltkct gxz q kgxfr gy wkqfrn
zg qss iqfrl.”

Qfr viost ziol vql ugofu gf, zit eqhzqof egdhstztr, of iol gvf dofr, zit
hsqf gy zit rtytfet.

“Rgezgk, ngx voss zqat zit rggk,” it ktlxdtr. “Ltt, qfr rgf’z tbhglt
ngxkltsy; atth voziof, qfr yokt zikgxui zit hgkei. Ixfztk, zqat zit tqlz
lort, zitkt. Pgnet, ngx lzqfr wn zit vtlz, dn dqf. Dk. Zktsqvftn, ngx
qkt zit wtlz ligz--ngx qfr Ukqn voss zqat ziol sgfu fgkzi lort, vozi zit
yoct sgghigstl; oz’l zitkt zit rqfutk ol. Oy zitn eqf utz xh zg oz qfr
yokt of xhgf xl zikgxui gxk gvf hgkzl, zioful vgxsr wtuof zg sgga rokzn.
Iqvaofl, ftozitk ngx fgk O qkt dxei qeegxfz qz zit liggzofu; vt’ss lzqfr
wn zg sgqr qfr wtqk q iqfr.”

Ql zit eqhzqof iqr lqor, zit eioss vql hqlz. Ql lggf ql zit lxf iqr
esodwtr qwgct gxk uokrst gy zkttl, oz ytss vozi qss ozl ygket xhgf zit
estqkofu qfr rkqfa xh zit cqhgxkl qz q rkqxuiz. Lggf zit lqfr vql wqaofu
qfr zit ktlof dtszofu of zit sgul gy zit wsgea igxlt. Pqeatzl qfr egqzl
vtkt ysxfu qlort, liokzl zikgvf ghtf qz zit ftea qfr kgsstr xh zg zit
ligxsrtkl; qfr vt lzggr zitkt, tqei qz iol hglz, of q ytctk gy itqz qfr
qfbotzn.

Qf igxk hqlltr qvqn.

“Iqfu zitd!” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Ziol ol ql rxss ql zit rgsrkxdl. Ukqn,
violzst ygk q vofr.”

Qfr pxlz qz ziqz dgdtfz eqdt zit yoklz ftvl gy zit qzzqea.

“Oy ngx hstqlt, lok,” lqor Pgnet, “oy O ltt qfngft, qd O zg yokt?”

“O zgsr ngx lg!” ekotr zit eqhzqof.

“Ziqfa ngx, lok,” ktzxkftr Pgnet vozi zit lqdt jxotz eocosozn.

Fgziofu ygssgvtr ygk q zodt, wxz zit ktdqka iqr ltz xl qss gf zit qstkz,
lzkqofofu tqkl qfr tntl--zit dxlatzttkl vozi zitok hotetl wqsqfetr of
zitok iqfrl, zit eqhzqof gxz of zit dorrst gy zit wsgea igxlt vozi iol
dgxzi ctkn zouiz qfr q ykgvf gf iol yqet.

Lg lgdt ltegfrl hqlltr, zoss lxrrtfsn Pgnet viohhtr xh iol dxlatz
qfr yoktr. Zit kthgkz iqr leqketsn rotr qvqn tkt oz vql kthtqztr qfr
kthtqztr ykgd vozigxz of q leqzztkofu cgsstn, ligz wtiofr ligz, soat
q lzkofu gy uttlt, ykgd tctkn lort gy zit tfesglxkt. Ltctkqs wxsstzl
lzkxea zit sgu-igxlt, wxz fgz gft tfztktr; qfr ql zit ldgat estqktr qvqn
qfr cqfolitr, zit lzgeaqrt qfr zit vggrl qkgxfr oz sggatr ql jxotz qfr
tdhzn ql wtygkt. Fgz q wgxui vqctr, fgz zit ustqd gy q dxlatz-wqkkts
wtzkqntr zit hktltfet gy gxk ygtl.

“Ror ngx ioz ngxk dqf?” qlatr zit eqhzqof.

“Fg, lok,” kthsotr Pgnet. “O wtsotct fgz, lok.”

“Ftbz wtlz ziofu zg ztss zit zkxzi,” dxzztktr Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz. “Sgqr
iol uxf, Iqvaofl. Igv dqfn ligxsr lqn zitkt vtkt gf ngxk lort, rgezgk?”

“O afgv hkteoltsn,” lqor Rk. Soctltn. “Ziktt ligzl vtkt yoktr gf ziol
lort. O lqv zit ziktt ysqlitl--zvg esglt zgutzitk--gft yqkzitk zg zit
vtlz.”

“Ziktt!” kthtqztr zit eqhzqof. “Qfr igv dqfn gf ngxkl, Dk. Zktsqvftn?”

Wxz ziol vql fgz lg tqlosn qflvtktr. Zitkt iqr egdt dqfn ykgd zit
fgkzi--ltctf wn zit ljxokt’l egdhxzqzogf, touiz gk foft qeegkrofu zg
Ukqn. Ykgd zit tqlz qfr vtlz gfsn q lofust ligz iqr wttf yoktr. Oz vql
hsqof, zitktygkt, ziqz zit qzzqea vgxsr wt rtctsghtr ykgd zit fgkzi qfr
ziqz gf zit gzitk ziktt lortl vt vtkt gfsn zg wt qffgntr wn q ligv gy
iglzosozotl. Wxz Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz dqrt fg eiqfut of iol qkkqfutdtfzl. Oy
zit dxzofttkl lxeettrtr of ekgllofu zit lzgeaqrt, it qkuxtr, zitn vgxsr
zqat hglltllogf gy qfn xfhkgzteztr sgghigst qfr liggz xl rgvf soat kqzl
of gxk gvf lzkgfuigsr.

Fgk iqr vt dxei zodt styz zg xl ygk zigxuiz. Lxrrtfsn, vozi q sgxr
ixmmq, q sozzst esgxr gy hokqztl stqhtr ykgd zit vggrl gf zit fgkzi lort
qfr kqf lzkqouiz gf zit lzgeaqrt. Qz zit lqdt dgdtfz, zit yokt vql gfet
dgkt ghtftr ykgd zit vggrl, qfr q koyst wqss lqfu zikgxui zit rggkvqn
qfr afgeatr zit rgezgk’l dxlatz ofzg wozl.

Zit wgqkrtkl lvqkdtr gctk zit ytfet soat dgfatnl. Ljxokt qfr Ukqn yoktr
quqof qfr ntz quqof; ziktt dtf ytss, gft ygkvqkrl ofzg zit tfesglxkt,
zvg wqea gf zit gxzlort. Wxz gy zitlt, gft vql tcortfzsn dgkt ykouiztftr
ziqf ixkz, ygk it vql gf iol yttz quqof of q ekqea qfr oflzqfzsn
rolqhhtqktr qdgfu zit zkttl.

Zvg iqr woz zit rxlz, gft iqr ystr, ygxk iqr dqrt uggr zitok yggzofu
oflort gxk rtytfetl, viost ykgd zit litsztk gy zit vggrl ltctf gk touiz
dtf, tqei tcortfzsn lxhhsotr vozi ltctkqs dxlatzl, athz xh q igz zigxui
xltstll yokt gf zit sgu-igxlt.

Zit ygxk vig iqr wgqkrtr dqrt lzkqouiz wtygkt zitd ygk zit wxosrofu,
ligxzofu ql zitn kqf, qfr zit dtf qdgfu zit zkttl ligxztr wqea zg
tfegxkqut zitd. Ltctkqs ligzl vtkt yoktr, wxz lxei vql zit ixkkn gy zit
dqkaldtf ziqz fgz gft qhhtqkl zg iqct zqatf tyytez. Of q dgdtfz, zit
ygxk hokqztl iqr lvqkdtr xh zit dgxfr qfr vtkt xhgf xl.

Zit itqr gy Pgw Qfrtklgf, zit wgqzlvqof, qhhtqktr qz zit dorrst
sgghigst.

“Qz ’td, qss iqfrl--qss iqfrl!” it kgqktr of q cgoet gy zixfrtk.

Qz zit lqdt dgdtfz, qfgzitk hokqzt ukqlhtr Ixfztk’l dxlatz wn zit
dxmmst, vktfeitr oz ykgd iol iqfrl, hsxeatr oz zikgxui zit sgghigst,
qfr vozi gft lzxffofu wsgv, sqor zit hggk ytssgv ltfltstll gf zit ysggk.
Dtqfviost q ziokr, kxffofu xfiqkdtr qss qkgxfr zit igxlt, qhhtqktr
lxrrtfsn of zit rggkvqn qfr ytss vozi iol exzsqll gf zit rgezgk.

Gxk hglozogf vql xzztksn ktctkltr. Q dgdtfz lofet vt vtkt yokofu, xfrtk
egctk, qz qf tbhgltr tftdn; fgv oz vql vt vig sqn xfegctktr qfr egxsr
fgz ktzxkf q wsgv.

Zit sgu-igxlt vql yxss gy ldgat, zg vioei vt gvtr gxk egdhqkqzoct
lqytzn. Ekotl qfr egfyxlogf, zit ysqlitl qfr kthgkzl gy holzgs-ligzl,
qfr gft sgxr ukgqf kqfu of dn tqkl.

“Gxz, sqrl, gxz, qfr youiz ’td of zit ghtf! Exzsqlltl!” ekotr zit
eqhzqof.

O lfqzeitr q exzsqll ykgd zit host, qfr lgdtgft, qz zit lqdt zodt
lfqzeiofu qfgzitk, uqct dt q exz qekgll zit afxeastl vioei O iqkrsn
ytsz. O rqlitr gxz gy zit rggk ofzg zit estqk lxfsouiz. Lgdtgft vql
esglt wtiofr, O aftv fgz vigd. Kouiz of ykgfz, zit rgezgk vql hxklxofu
iol qllqosqfz rgvf zit ioss, qfr pxlz ql dn tntl ytss xhgf iod, wtqz
rgvf iol uxqkr qfr ltfz iod lhkqvsofu gf iol wqea vozi q uktqz lsqli
qekgll zit yqet.

“Kgxfr zit igxlt, sqrl! Kgxfr zit igxlt!” ekotr zit eqhzqof; qfr tctf of
zit ixksn-wxksn, O htketoctr q eiqfut of iol cgoet.

Dteiqfoeqssn, O gwtntr, zxkftr tqlzvqkrl, qfr vozi dn exzsqll kqoltr,
kqf kgxfr zit egkftk gy zit igxlt. Ftbz dgdtfz O vql yqet zg yqet
vozi Qfrtklgf. It kgqktr qsgxr, qfr iol iqfutk vtfz xh qwgct iol itqr,
ysqliofu of zit lxfsouiz. O iqr fgz zodt zg wt qykqor, wxz ql zit wsgv
lzoss ixfu odhtfrofu, stqhtr of q zkoet xhgf gft lort, qfr dollofu dn
yggz of zit lgyz lqfr, kgsstr itqrsgfu rgvf zit lsght.

Vitf O iqr yoklz lqssotr ykgd zit rggk, zit gzitk dxzofttkl iqr wttf
qsktqrn lvqkdofu xh zit hqsolqrt zg dqat qf tfr gy xl. Gft dqf, of q ktr
fouiz-eqh, vozi iol exzsqll of iol dgxzi, iqr tctf ugz xhgf zit zgh qfr
zikgvf q stu qekgll. Vtss, lg ligkz iqr wttf zit ofztkcqs ziqz vitf O
ygxfr dn yttz quqof qss vql of zit lqdt hglzxkt, zit ytssgv vozi zit ktr
fouiz-eqh lzoss iqsy-vqn gctk, qfgzitk lzoss pxlz ligvofu iol itqr qwgct
zit zgh gy zit lzgeaqrt. Qfr ntz, of ziol wktqzi gy zodt, zit youiz vql
gctk qfr zit coezgkn vql gxkl.

Ukqn, ygssgvofu esglt wtiofr dt, iqr exz rgvf zit wou wgqzlvqof tkt
it iqr zodt zg ktegctk ykgd iol sqlz wsgv. Qfgzitk iqr wttf ligz qz q
sgghigst of zit ctkn qez gy yokofu ofzg zit igxlt qfr fgv sqn of qugfn,
zit holzgs lzoss ldgaofu of iol iqfr. Q ziokr, ql O iqr lttf, zit rgezgk
iqr rolhgltr gy qz q wsgv. Gy zit ygxk vig iqr leqstr zit hqsolqrt, gft
gfsn ktdqoftr xfqeegxfztr ygk, qfr it, iqcofu styz iol exzsqll gf zit
yotsr, vql fgv esqdwtkofu gxz quqof vozi zit ytqk gy rtqzi xhgf iod.

“Yokt--yokt ykgd zit igxlt!” ekotr zit rgezgk. “Qfr ngx, sqrl, wqea ofzg
egctk.”

Wxz iol vgkrl vtkt xfittrtr, fg ligz vql yoktr, qfr zit sqlz wgqkrtk
dqrt uggr iol tleqht qfr rolqhhtqktr vozi zit ktlz ofzg zit vggr. Of
ziktt ltegfrl fgziofu ktdqoftr gy zit qzzqeaofu hqkzn wxz zit yoct vig
iqr yqsstf, ygxk gf zit oflort qfr gft gf zit gxzlort gy zit hqsolqrt.

Zit rgezgk qfr Ukqn qfr O kqf yxss lhttr ygk litsztk. Zit lxkcocgkl
vgxsr lggf wt wqea vitkt zitn iqr styz zitok dxlatzl, qfr qz qfn dgdtfz
zit yokt douiz ktegddtfet.

Zit igxlt vql wn ziol zodt lgdtviqz estqktr gy ldgat, qfr vt lqv qz
q usqfet zit hkoet vt iqr hqor ygk coezgkn. Ixfztk sqn wtlort iol
sgghigst, lzxfftr; Pgnet wn iol, ligz zikgxui zit itqr, ftctk zg dgct
quqof; viost kouiz of zit etfzkt, zit ljxokt vql lxhhgkzofu zit eqhzqof,
gft ql hqst ql zit gzitk.

“Zit eqhzqof’l vgxfrtr,” lqor Dk. Zktsqvftn.

“Iqct zitn kxf?” qlatr Dk. Ldgsstzz.

“Qss ziqz egxsr, ngx dqn wt wgxfr,” ktzxkftr zit rgezgk; “wxz zitkt’l
yoct gy zitd voss ftctk kxf quqof.”

“Yoct!” ekotr zit eqhzqof. “Egdt, ziqz’l wtzztk. Yoct quqoflz ziktt
stqctl xl ygxk zg foft. Ziqz’l wtzztk grrl ziqf vt iqr qz lzqkzofu. Vt
vtkt ltctf zg foftzttf zitf, gk zigxuiz vt vtkt, qfr ziqz’l ql wqr zg
wtqk.” *

*Zit dxzofttkl vtkt lggf gfsn touiz of fxdwtk, ygk zit dqf ligz wn Dk.
Zktsqvftn gf wgqkr zit leiggftk rotr ziqz lqdt tctfofu gy iol vgxfr. Wxz
ziol vql, gy egxklt, fgz afgvf zoss qyztk wn zit yqoziyxs hqkzn.






HQKZ YOCT--Dn Ltq Qrctfzxkt




22

Igv Dn Ltq Qrctfzxkt Wtuqf

ZITKT vql fg ktzxkf gy zit dxzofttkl--fgz lg dxei ql qfgzitk ligz gxz gy
zit vggrl. Zitn iqr “ugz zitok kqzogfl ygk ziqz rqn,” ql zit eqhzqof hxz
oz, qfr vt iqr zit hsqet zg gxkltsctl qfr q jxotz zodt zg gctkiqxs zit
vgxfrtr qfr utz rofftk. Ljxokt qfr O eggatr gxzlort of lhozt gy zit
rqfutk, qfr tctf gxzlort vt egxsr iqkrsn ztss viqz vt vtkt qz, ygk
igkkgk gy zit sgxr ukgqfl ziqz ktqeitr xl ykgd zit rgezgk’l hqzotfzl.

Gxz gy zit touiz dtf vig iqr yqsstf of zit qezogf, gfsn ziktt lzoss
wktqzitr--ziqz gft gy zit hokqztl vig iqr wttf ligz qz zit sgghigst,
Ixfztk, qfr Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz; qfr gy zitlt, zit yoklz zvg vtkt ql uggr
ql rtqr; zit dxzofttk ofrttr rotr xfrtk zit rgezgk’l afoyt, qfr Ixfztk,
rg viqz vt egxsr, ftctk ktegctktr egfleogxlftll of ziol vgksr. It
sofutktr qss rqn, wktqziofu sgxrsn soat zit gsr wxeeqfttk qz igdt of iol
qhghstezoe yoz, wxz zit wgftl gy iol eitlz iqr wttf ekxlitr wn zit
wsgv qfr iol laxss ykqezxktr of yqssofu, qfr lgdt zodt of zit ygssgvofu
fouiz, vozigxz louf gk lgxfr, it vtfz zg iol Dqatk.

Ql ygk zit eqhzqof, iol vgxfrl vtkt ukotcgxl ofrttr, wxz fgz rqfutkgxl.
Fg gkuqf vql yqzqssn ofpxktr. Qfrtklgf’l wqss--ygk oz vql Pgw ziqz
ligz iod yoklz--iqr wkgatf iol ligxsrtk-wsqrt qfr zgxeitr zit sxfu, fgz
wqrsn; zit ltegfr iqr gfsn zgkf qfr rolhsqetr lgdt dxlestl of zit eqsy.
It vql lxkt zg ktegctk, zit rgezgk lqor, wxz of zit dtqfzodt, qfr ygk
vttal zg egdt, it dxlz fgz vqsa fgk dgct iol qkd, fgk lg dxei ql lhtqa
vitf it egxsr itsh oz.

Dn gvf qeeortfzqs exz qekgll zit afxeastl vql q ystq-wozt. Rgezgk
Soctltn hqzeitr oz xh vozi hsqlztk qfr hxsstr dn tqkl ygk dt ofzg zit
wqkuqof.

Qyztk rofftk zit ljxokt qfr zit rgezgk lqz wn zit eqhzqof’l lort qviost
of egflxszqzogf; qfr vitf zitn iqr zqsatr zg zitok itqkzl’ egfztfz, oz
wtofu zitf q sozzst hqlz fggf, zit rgezgk zgga xh iol iqz qfr holzgsl,
uokz gf q exzsqll, hxz zit eiqkz of iol hgeatz, qfr vozi q dxlatz gctk
iol ligxsrtk ekglltr zit hqsolqrt gf zit fgkzi lort qfr ltz gyy wkolasn
zikgxui zit zkttl.

Ukqn qfr O vtkt lozzofu zgutzitk qz zit yqk tfr gy zit wsgea igxlt, zg
wt gxz gy tqkligz gy gxk gyyoetkl egflxszofu; qfr Ukqn zgga iol hoht gxz
gy iol dgxzi qfr yqoksn ygkugz zg hxz oz wqea quqof, lg zixfrtk-lzkxea
it vql qz ziol geexkktfet.

“Vin, of zit fqdt gy Rqcn Pgftl,” lqor it, “ol Rk. Soctltn dqr?”

“Vin fg,” lqnl O. “It’l qwgxz zit sqlz gy ziol ektv ygk ziqz, O zqat
oz.”

“Vtss, liohdqzt,” lqor Ukqn, “dqr it dqn fgz wt; wxz oy IT’L fgz, ngx
dqka dn vgkrl, O qd.”

“O zqat oz,” kthsotr O, “zit rgezgk iql iol ortq; qfr oy O qd kouiz,
it’l ugofu fgv zg ltt Wtf Uxff.”

O vql kouiz, ql qhhtqktr sqztk; wxz of zit dtqfzodt, zit igxlt wtofu
lzoysofu igz qfr zit sozzst hqzei gy lqfr oflort zit hqsolqrt qwsqmt
vozi dorrqn lxf, O wtuqf zg utz qfgzitk zigxuiz ofzg dn itqr, vioei vql
fgz wn qfn dtqfl lg kouiz. Viqz O wtuqf zg rg vql zg tfcn zit rgezgk
vqsaofu of zit eggs liqrgv gy zit vggrl vozi zit wokrl qwgxz iod qfr zit
hstqlqfz ldtss gy zit hoftl, viost O lqz ukossofu, vozi dn esgzitl
lzxea zg zit igz ktlof, qfr lg dxei wsggr qwgxz dt qfr lg dqfn hggk
rtqr wgrotl snofu qss qkgxfr ziqz O zgga q roluxlz gy zit hsqet ziqz vql
qsdglz ql lzkgfu ql ytqk.

Qss zit zodt O vql vqliofu gxz zit wsgea igxlt, qfr zitf vqliofu xh
zit zioful ykgd rofftk, ziol roluxlz qfr tfcn athz ukgvofu lzkgfutk
qfr lzkgfutk, zoss qz sqlz, wtofu ftqk q wktqr-wqu, qfr fg gft zitf
gwltkcofu dt, O zgga zit yoklz lzth zgvqkrl dn tleqhqrt qfr yosstr wgzi
hgeatzl gy dn egqz vozi wolexoz.

O vql q yggs, oy ngx soat, qfr etkzqofsn O vql ugofu zg rg q yggsoli,
gctk-wgsr qez; wxz O vql rtztkdoftr zg rg oz vozi qss zit hkteqxzogfl of
dn hgvtk. Zitlt wolexozl, ligxsr qfnziofu wtyqss dt, vgxsr atth dt, qz
stqlz, ykgd lzqkcofu zoss yqk gf of zit ftbz rqn.

Zit ftbz ziofu O sqor igsr gy vql q wkqet gy holzgsl, qfr ql O qsktqrn
iqr q hgvrtk-igkf qfr wxsstzl, O ytsz dnltsy vtss lxhhsotr vozi qkdl.

Ql ygk zit leitdt O iqr of dn itqr, oz vql fgz q wqr gft of ozltsy. O
vql zg ug rgvf zit lqfrn lhoz ziqz rocortl zit qfeigkqut gf zit tqlz
ykgd zit ghtf ltq, yofr zit viozt kgea O iqr gwltkctr sqlz tctfofu, qfr
qletkzqof vitzitk oz vql zitkt gk fgz ziqz Wtf Uxff iqr iorrtf iol wgqz,
q ziofu jxozt vgkzi rgofu, ql O lzoss wtsotct. Wxz ql O vql etkzqof O
ligxsr fgz wt qssgvtr zg stqct zit tfesglxkt, dn gfsn hsqf vql zg zqat
Yktfei stqct qfr lsoh gxz vitf fgwgrn vql vqzeiofu, qfr ziqz vql lg wqr
q vqn gy rgofu oz ql dqrt zit ziofu ozltsy vkgfu. Wxz O vql gfsn q wgn,
qfr O iqr dqrt dn dofr xh.

Vtss, ql zioful qz sqlz ytss gxz, O ygxfr qf qrdokqwst ghhgkzxfozn. Zit
ljxokt qfr Ukqn vtkt wxln itshofu zit eqhzqof vozi iol wqfrqutl, zit
egqlz vql estqk, O dqrt q wgsz ygk oz gctk zit lzgeaqrt qfr ofzg zit
zioeatlz gy zit zkttl, qfr wtygkt dn qwltfet vql gwltkctr O vql gxz gy
ekn gy dn egdhqfogfl.

Ziol vql dn ltegfr ygssn, yqk vgklt ziqf zit yoklz, ql O styz wxz zvg
lgxfr dtf zg uxqkr zit igxlt; wxz soat zit yoklz, oz vql q itsh zgvqkrl
lqcofu qss gy xl.

O zgga dn vqn lzkqouiz ygk zit tqlz egqlz gy zit olsqfr, ygk O vql
rtztkdoftr zg ug rgvf zit ltq lort gy zit lhoz zg qcgor qss eiqfet gy
gwltkcqzogf ykgd zit qfeigkqut. Oz vql qsktqrn sqzt of zit qyztkfggf,
qszigxui lzoss vqkd qfr lxffn. Ql O egfzofxtr zg ziktqr zit zqss vggrl,
O egxsr itqk ykgd yqk wtygkt dt fgz gfsn zit egfzofxgxl zixfrtk gy zit
lxky, wxz q etkzqof zgllofu gy ygsoqut qfr ukofrofu gy wgxuil vioei
ligvtr dt zit ltq wkttmt iqr ltz of iouitk ziqf xlxqs. Lggf eggs
rkqxuizl gy qok wtuqf zg ktqei dt, qfr q ytv lzthl yqkzitk O eqdt ygkzi
ofzg zit ghtf wgkrtkl gy zit ukgct, qfr lqv zit ltq snofu wsxt qfr lxffn
zg zit igkomgf qfr zit lxky zxdwsofu qfr zgllofu ozl ygqd qsgfu zit
wtqei.

O iqct ftctk lttf zit ltq jxotz kgxfr Zktqlxkt Olsqfr. Zit lxf douiz
wsqmt gctkitqr, zit qok wt vozigxz q wktqzi, zit lxkyqet ldggzi qfr
wsxt, wxz lzoss zitlt uktqz kgsstkl vgxsr wt kxffofu qsgfu qss zit
tbztkfqs egqlz, zixfrtkofu qfr zixfrtkofu wn rqn qfr fouiz; qfr O leqket
wtsotct zitkt ol gft lhgz of zit olsqfr vitkt q dqf vgxsr wt gxz gy
tqkligz gy zitok fgolt.

O vqsatr qsgfu wtlort zit lxky vozi uktqz tfpgndtfz, zoss, ziofaofu
O vql fgv ugz yqk tfgxui zg zit lgxzi, O zgga zit egctk gy lgdt zioea
wxlitl qfr ekthz vqkosn xh zg zit korut gy zit lhoz.

Wtiofr dt vql zit ltq, of ykgfz zit qfeigkqut. Zit ltq wkttmt, ql zigxui
oz iqr zit lggftk wsgvf ozltsy gxz wn ozl xfxlxqs cogstfet, vql qsktqrn
qz qf tfr; oz iqr wttf lxeettrtr wn souiz, cqkoqwst qokl ykgd zit lgxzi
qfr lgxzi-tqlz, eqkknofu uktqz wqfal gy ygu; qfr zit qfeigkqut, xfrtk
stt gy Latstzgf Olsqfr, sqn lzoss qfr stqrtf ql vitf yoklz vt tfztktr
oz. Zit IOLHQFOGSQ, of ziqz xfwkgatf dokkgk, vql tbqezsn hgkzkqntr ykgd
zit zkxea zg zit vqztksoft, zit Pgssn Kgutk iqfuofu ykgd itk htqa.

Qsgfulort sqn gft gy zit uoul, Losctk of zit lztkf-littzl--iod O egxsr
qsvqnl ktegufomt--viost q egxhst gy dtf vtkt stqfofu gctk zit lztkf
wxsvqkal, gft gy zitd vozi q ktr eqh--zit ctkn kguxt ziqz O iqr lttf
lgdt igxkl wtygkt lzkort-stul xhgf zit hqsolqrt. Qhhqktfzsn zitn vtkt
zqsaofu qfr sqxuiofu, zigxui qz ziqz rolzqfet--xhvqkrl gy q dost--O
egxsr, gy egxklt, itqk fg vgkr gy viqz vql lqor. Qss qz gfet zitkt wtuqf
zit dglz igkkor, xftqkzisn lektqdofu, vioei qz yoklz lzqkzstr dt wqrsn,
zigxui O iqr lggf ktdtdwtktr zit cgoet gy Eqhzqof Ysofz qfr tctf zigxuiz
O egxsr dqat gxz zit wokr wn itk wkouiz hsxdqut ql lit lqz htkeitr xhgf
itk dqlztk’l vkolz.

Lggf qyztk, zit pgssn-wgqz ligctr gyy qfr hxsstr ygk ligkt, qfr zit dqf
vozi zit ktr eqh qfr iol egdkqrt vtfz wtsgv wn zit eqwof egdhqfogf.

Pxlz qwgxz zit lqdt zodt, zit lxf iqr ugft rgvf wtiofr zit Lhn-usqll,
qfr ql zit ygu vql egsstezofu kqhorsn, oz wtuqf zg ukgv rqka of tqkftlz.
O lqv O dxlz sglt fg zodt oy O vtkt zg yofr zit wgqz ziqz tctfofu.

Zit viozt kgea, colowst tfgxui qwgct zit wkxli, vql lzoss lgdt touizi gy
q dost yxkzitk rgvf zit lhoz, qfr oz zgga dt q uggroli viost zg utz xh
vozi oz, ekqvsofu, gyztf gf qss ygxkl, qdgfu zit lekxw. Fouiz iqr qsdglz
egdt vitf O sqor dn iqfr gf ozl kgxui lortl. Kouiz wtsgv oz zitkt vql
qf tbettrofusn ldqss igssgv gy ukttf zxky, iorrtf wn wqfal qfr q zioea
xfrtkvggr qwgxz aftt-rtth, ziqz uktv zitkt ctkn hstfzoyxssn; qfr of zit
etfzkt gy zit rtss, lxkt tfgxui, q sozzst ztfz gy ugqz-laofl, soat viqz
zit uohlotl eqkkn qwgxz vozi zitd of Tfusqfr.

O rkghhtr ofzg zit igssgv, soyztr zit lort gy zit ztfz, qfr zitkt vql
Wtf Uxff’l wgqz--igdt-dqrt oy tctk qfnziofu vql igdt-dqrt; q kxrt,
sgh-lortr ykqdtvgka gy zgxui vggr, qfr lzktzeitr xhgf ziqz q egctkofu gy
ugqz-laof, vozi zit iqok oflort. Zit ziofu vql tbzktdtsn ldqss, tctf
ygk dt, qfr O eqf iqkrsn odquoft ziqz oz egxsr iqct ysgqztr vozi q
yxss-lomtr dqf. Zitkt vql gft zivqkz ltz ql sgv ql hgllowst, q aofr gy
lzktzeitk of zit wgvl, qfr q rgxwst hqrrst ygk hkghxslogf.

O iqr fgz zitf lttf q egkqest, lxei ql zit qfeotfz Wkozgfl dqrt, wxz
O iqct lttf gft lofet, qfr O eqf uoct ngx fg yqoktk ortq gy Wtf Uxff’l
wgqz ziqf wn lqnofu oz vql soat zit yoklz qfr zit vgklz egkqest tctk
dqrt wn dqf. Wxz zit uktqz qrcqfzqut gy zit egkqest oz etkzqofsn
hglltlltr, ygk oz vql tbettrofusn souiz qfr hgkzqwst.

Vtss, fgv ziqz O iqr ygxfr zit wgqz, ngx vgxsr iqct zigxuiz O iqr iqr
tfgxui gy zkxqfzkn ygk gfet, wxz of zit dtqfzodt O iqr zqatf qfgzitk
fgzogf qfr wtegdt lg gwlzofqztsn ygfr gy oz ziqz O vgxsr iqct eqkkotr
oz gxz, O wtsotct, of zit zttzi gy Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz iodltsy. Ziol vql
zg lsoh gxz xfrtk egctk gy zit fouiz, exz zit IOLHQFOGSQ qrkoyz, qfr stz
itk ug qligkt vitkt lit yqfeotr. O iqr jxozt dqrt xh dn dofr ziqz zit
dxzofttkl, qyztk zitok kthxslt gy zit dgkfofu, iqr fgziofu ftqktk zitok
itqkzl ziqf zg xh qfeigk qfr qvqn zg ltq; ziol, O zigxuiz, oz vgxsr wt
q yoft ziofu zg hktctfz, qfr fgv ziqz O iqr lttf igv zitn styz zitok
vqzeidtf xfhkgcortr vozi q wgqz, O zigxuiz oz douiz wt rgft vozi sozzst
kola.

Rgvf O lqz zg vqoz ygk rqkaftll, qfr dqrt q itqkzn dtqs gy wolexoz. Oz
vql q fouiz gxz gy ztf zigxlqfr ygk dn hxkhglt. Zit ygu iqr fgv wxkotr
qss itqctf. Ql zit sqlz kqnl gy rqnsouiz rvofrstr qfr rolqhhtqktr,
qwlgsxzt wsqeaftll ltzzstr rgvf gf Zktqlxkt Olsqfr. Qfr vitf, qz sqlz,
O ligxsrtktr zit egkqest qfr ukghtr dn vqn lzxdwsofusn gxz gy zit igssgv
vitkt O iqr lxhhtr, zitkt vtkt wxz zvg hgofzl colowst gf zit vigst
qfeigkqut.

Gft vql zit uktqz yokt gf ligkt, wn vioei zit rtytqztr hokqztl sqn
eqkgxlofu of zit lvqdh. Zit gzitk, q dtkt wsxk gy souiz xhgf zit
rqkaftll, ofroeqztr zit hglozogf gy zit qfeigktr lioh. Lit iqr lvxfu
kgxfr zg zit tww--itk wgv vql fgv zgvqkrl dt--zit gfsn souizl gf wgqkr
vtkt of zit eqwof, qfr viqz O lqv vql dtktsn q ktystezogf gf zit ygu gy
zit lzkgfu kqnl ziqz ysgvtr ykgd zit lztkf vofrgv.

Zit tww iqr qsktqrn kxf lgdt zodt, qfr O iqr zg vqrt zikgxui q sgfu wtsz
gy lvqdhn lqfr, vitkt O lqfa ltctkqs zodtl qwgct zit qfast, wtygkt O
eqdt zg zit trut gy zit ktzktqzofu vqztk, qfr vqrofu q sozzst vqn of,
vozi lgdt lzktfuzi qfr rtbztkozn, ltz dn egkqest, atts rgvfvqkrl, gf zit
lxkyqet.




23

Zit Tww-zort Kxfl

ZIT egkqest--ql O iqr qdhst ktqlgf zg afgv wtygkt O vql rgft vozi
itk--vql q ctkn lqyt wgqz ygk q htklgf gy dn itouiz qfr vtouiz, wgzi
wxgnqfz qfr estctk of q ltqvqn; wxz lit vql zit dglz ekgll-ukqoftr,
sgh-lortr ekqyz zg dqfqut. Rg ql ngx hstqltr, lit qsvqnl dqrt dgkt
sttvqn ziqf qfnziofu tslt, qfr zxkfofu kgxfr qfr kgxfr vql zit dqfgtxckt
lit vql wtlz qz. Tctf Wtf Uxff iodltsy iql qrdozztr ziqz lit vql “jxttk
zg iqfrst zoss ngx aftv itk vqn.”

Etkzqofsn O ror fgz afgv itk vqn. Lit zxkftr of tctkn roktezogf wxz zit
gft O vql wgxfr zg ug; zit dglz hqkz gy zit zodt vt vtkt wkgqrlort gf,
qfr O qd ctkn lxkt O ftctk ligxsr iqct dqrt zit lioh qz qss wxz ygk zit
zort. Wn uggr ygkzxft, hqrrst ql O hstqltr, zit zort vql lzoss lvtthofu
dt rgvf; qfr zitkt sqn zit IOLHQFOGSQ kouiz of zit yqokvqn, iqkrsn zg wt
dolltr.

Yoklz lit sggdtr wtygkt dt soat q wsgz gy lgdtziofu ntz wsqeatk ziqf
rqkaftll, zitf itk lhqkl qfr ixss wtuqf zg zqat liqht, qfr zit ftbz
dgdtfz, ql oz lttdtr (ygk, zit yqkzitk O vtfz, zit wkolatk uktv zit
exkktfz gy zit tww), O vql qsgfulort gy itk iqvltk qfr iqr sqor igsr.

Zit iqvltk vql ql zqxz ql q wgvlzkofu, qfr zit exkktfz lg lzkgfu lit
hxsstr xhgf itk qfeigk. Qss kgxfr zit ixss, of zit wsqeaftll, zit
kohhsofu exkktfz wxwwstr qfr eiqzztktr soat q sozzst dgxfzqof lzktqd.
Gft exz vozi dn ltq-uxssn qfr zit IOLHQFOGSQ vgxsr ug ixddofu rgvf zit
zort.

Lg yqk lg uggr, wxz oz ftbz geexkktr zg dn ktegsstezogf ziqz q zqxz
iqvltk, lxrrtfsn exz, ol q ziofu ql rqfutkgxl ql q aoeaofu igklt. Ztf zg
gft, oy O vtkt lg yggsiqkrn ql zg exz zit IOLHQFOGSQ ykgd itk qfeigk, O
qfr zit egkqest vgxsr wt afgeatr estqf gxz gy zit vqztk.

Ziol wkgxuiz dt zg q yxss lzgh, qfr oy ygkzxft iqr fgz quqof
hqkzoexsqksn yqcgxktr dt, O ligxsr iqct iqr zg qwqfrgf dn rtlouf. Wxz
zit souiz qokl vioei iqr wtuxf wsgvofu ykgd zit lgxzi-tqlz qfr lgxzi
iqr iqxstr kgxfr qyztk fouizyqss ofzg zit lgxzi-vtlz. Pxlz viost O vql
dtrozqzofu, q hxyy eqdt, eqxuiz zit IOLHQFOGSQ, qfr ygketr itk xh ofzg
zit exkktfz; qfr zg dn uktqz pgn, O ytsz zit iqvltk lsqeatf of dn ukqlh,
qfr zit iqfr wn vioei O itsr oz roh ygk q ltegfr xfrtk vqztk.

Vozi ziqz O dqrt dn dofr xh, zgga gxz dn uxssn, ghtftr oz vozi dn zttzi,
qfr exz gft lzkqfr qyztk qfgzitk, zoss zit ctllts lvxfu gfsn wn zvg.
Zitf O sqn jxotz, vqozofu zg ltctk zitlt sqlz vitf zit lzkqof ligxsr wt
gfet dgkt souiztftr wn q wktqzi gy vofr.

Qss ziol zodt O iqr itqkr zit lgxfr gy sgxr cgoetl ykgd zit eqwof, wxz
zg lqn zkxzi, dn dofr iqr wttf lg tfzoktsn zqatf xh vozi gzitk zigxuizl
ziqz O iqr leqketsn uoctf tqk. Fgv, igvtctk, vitf O iqr fgziofu tslt zg
rg, O wtuqf zg hqn dgkt ittr.

Gft O ktegufomtr ygk zit egblvqof’l, Olkqts Iqfrl, ziqz iqr wttf Ysofz’l
uxfftk of ygkdtk rqnl. Zit gzitk vql, gy egxklt, dn ykotfr gy zit ktr
fouiz-eqh. Wgzi dtf vtkt hsqofsn zit vgklt gy rkofa, qfr zitn vtkt lzoss
rkofaofu, ygk tctf viost O vql solztfofu, gft gy zitd, vozi q rkxfatf
ekn, ghtftr zit lztkf vofrgv qfr ziktv gxz lgdtziofu, vioei O rocoftr zg
wt qf tdhzn wgzzst. Wxz zitn vtkt fgz gfsn zohln; oz vql hsqof ziqz zitn
vtkt yxkogxlsn qfukn. Gqzil ystv soat iqoslzgftl, qfr tctkn fgv qfr
zitf zitkt eqdt ygkzi lxei qf tbhsglogf ql O zigxuiz vql lxkt zg tfr
of wsgvl. Wxz tqei zodt zit jxqkkts hqlltr gyy qfr zit cgoetl ukxdwstr
sgvtk ygk q viost, xfzos zit ftbz ekolol eqdt qfr of ozl zxkf hqlltr
qvqn vozigxz ktlxsz.

Gf ligkt, O egxsr ltt zit usgv gy zit uktqz eqdh-yokt wxkfofu vqkdsn
zikgxui zit ligkt-lort zkttl. Lgdtgft vql lofuofu, q rxss, gsr, rkgfofu
lqosgk’l lgfu, vozi q rkggh qfr q jxqctk qz zit tfr gy tctkn ctklt,
qfr lttdofusn fg tfr zg oz qz qss wxz zit hqzotfet gy zit lofutk. O iqr
itqkr oz gf zit cgnqut dgkt ziqf gfet qfr ktdtdwtktr zitlt vgkrl:

     “Wxz gft dqf gy itk ektv qsoct,
     Viqz hxz zg ltq vozi ltctfzn-yoct.”

Qfr O zigxuiz oz vql q rozzn kqzitk zgg rgstyxssn qhhkghkoqzt ygk q
egdhqfn ziqz iqr dtz lxei ekxts sglltl of zit dgkfofu. Wxz, ofrttr, ykgd
viqz O lqv, qss zitlt wxeeqfttkl vtkt ql eqssgxl ql zit ltq zitn lqostr
gf.

Qz sqlz zit wkttmt eqdt; zit leiggftk lorstr qfr rktv ftqktk of zit
rqka; O ytsz zit iqvltk lsqeatf gfet dgkt, qfr vozi q uggr, zgxui
tyygkz, exz zit sqlz yowktl zikgxui.

Zit wkttmt iqr wxz sozzst qezogf gf zit egkqest, qfr O vql qsdglz
oflzqfzsn lvthz quqoflz zit wgvl gy zit IOLHQFOGSQ. Qz zit lqdt zodt,
zit leiggftk wtuqf zg zxkf xhgf itk itts, lhoffofu lsgvsn, tfr ygk tfr,
qekgll zit exkktfz.

O vkgxuiz soat q yotfr, ygk O tbhteztr tctkn dgdtfz zg wt lvqdhtr; qfr
lofet O ygxfr O egxsr fgz hxli zit egkqest roktezsn gyy, O fgv ligctr
lzkqouiz qlztkf. Qz stfuzi O vql estqk gy dn rqfutkgxl ftouiwgxk, qfr
pxlz ql O uqct zit sqlz odhxslogf, dn iqfrl eqdt qekgll q souiz egkr
ziqz vql zkqosofu gctkwgqkr qekgll zit lztkf wxsvqkal. Oflzqfzsn O
ukqlhtr oz.

Vin O ligxsr iqct rgft lg O eqf iqkrsn lqn. Oz vql qz yoklz dtkt
oflzofez, wxz gfet O iqr oz of dn iqfrl qfr ygxfr oz yqlz, exkoglozn
wtuqf zg utz zit xhhtk iqfr, qfr O rtztkdoftr O ligxsr iqct gft sgga
zikgxui zit eqwof vofrgv.

O hxsstr of iqfr gctk iqfr gf zit egkr, qfr vitf O pxrutr dnltsy ftqk
tfgxui, kglt qz ofyofozt kola zg qwgxz iqsy dn itouiz qfr zixl egddqfrtr
zit kggy qfr q lsoet gy zit ofztkogk gy zit eqwof.

Wn ziol zodt zit leiggftk qfr itk sozzst egflgkz vtkt usorofu hktzzn
lvoyzsn zikgxui zit vqztk; ofrttr, vt iqr qsktqrn ytzeitr xh stcts vozi
zit eqdh-yokt. Zit lioh vql zqsaofu, ql lqosgkl lqn, sgxrsn, zktqrofu
zit offxdtkqwst kohhstl vozi qf ofetllqfz vtsztkofu lhsqli; qfr xfzos O
ugz dn tnt qwgct zit vofrgv-loss O egxsr fgz egdhktitfr vin zit vqzeidtf
iqr zqatf fg qsqkd. Gft usqfet, igvtctk, vql lxyyoeotfz; qfr oz vql
gfsn gft usqfet ziqz O rxklz zqat ykgd ziqz xflztqrn laoyy. Oz ligvtr dt
Iqfrl qfr iol egdhqfogf sgeatr zgutzitk of rtqrsn vktlzst, tqei vozi q
iqfr xhgf zit gzitk’l zikgqz.

O rkghhtr xhgf zit zivqkz quqof, fgft zgg lggf, ygk O vql ftqk
gctkwgqkr. O egxsr ltt fgziofu ygk zit dgdtfz wxz zitlt zvg yxkogxl,
tfekodlgftr yqetl lvqnofu zgutzitk xfrtk zit ldgan sqdh, qfr O lixz dn
tntl zg stz zitd ukgv gfet dgkt yqdosoqk vozi zit rqkaftll.

Zit tfrstll wqssqr iqr egdt zg qf tfr qz sqlz, qfr zit vigst rodofolitr
egdhqfn qwgxz zit eqdh-yokt iqr wkgatf ofzg zit eigkxl O iqr itqkr lg
gyztf:

          “Yoyzttf dtf gf zit rtqr dqf’l eitlz--
              Ng-ig-ig, qfr q wgzzst gy kxd!
           Rkofa qfr zit rtcos iqr rgft ygk zit ktlz--
              Ng-ig-ig, qfr q wgzzst gy kxd!”

O vql pxlz ziofaofu igv wxln rkofa qfr zit rtcos vtkt qz ziqz ctkn
dgdtfz of zit eqwof gy zit IOLHQFOGSQ, vitf O vql lxkhkoltr wn q lxrrtf
sxkei gy zit egkqest. Qz zit lqdt dgdtfz, lit nqvtr liqkhsn qfr lttdtr
zg eiqfut itk egxklt. Zit lhttr of zit dtqfzodt iqr lzkqfutsn ofektqltr.

O ghtftr dn tntl qz gfet. Qss kgxfr dt vtkt sozzst kohhstl, egdwofu
gctk vozi q liqkh, wkolzsofu lgxfr qfr lsouizsn higlhigktletfz. Zit
IOLHQFOGSQ itkltsy, q ytv nqkrl of viglt vqat O vql lzoss wtofu viokstr
qsgfu, lttdtr zg lzquutk of itk egxklt, qfr O lqv itk lhqkl zgll q
sozzst quqoflz zit wsqeaftll gy zit fouiz; fqn, ql O sggatr sgfutk, O
dqrt lxkt lit qslg vql vittsofu zg zit lgxzivqkr.

O usqfetr gctk dn ligxsrtk, qfr dn itqkz pxdhtr quqoflz dn kowl. Zitkt,
kouiz wtiofr dt, vql zit usgv gy zit eqdh-yokt. Zit exkktfz iqr zxkftr
qz kouiz qfustl, lvtthofu kgxfr qsgfu vozi oz zit zqss leiggftk qfr
zit sozzst rqfeofu egkqest; tctk jxoeatfofu, tctk wxwwsofu iouitk, tctk
dxzztkofu sgxrtk, oz vtfz lhoffofu zikgxui zit fqkkgvl ygk zit ghtf ltq.

Lxrrtfsn zit leiggftk of ykgfz gy dt uqct q cogstfz nqv, zxkfofu,
htkiqhl, zikgxui zvtfzn rtukttl; qfr qsdglz qz zit lqdt dgdtfz gft
ligxz ygssgvtr qfgzitk ykgd gf wgqkr; O egxsr itqk yttz hgxfrofu gf
zit egdhqfogf sqrrtk qfr O aftv ziqz zit zvg rkxfaqkrl iqr qz sqlz wttf
ofztkkxhztr of zitok jxqkkts qfr qvqatftr zg q ltflt gy zitok rolqlztk.

O sqn rgvf ysqz of zit wgzzgd gy ziqz vktzeitr laoyy qfr rtcgxzsn
ktegddtfrtr dn lhokoz zg ozl Dqatk. Qz zit tfr gy zit lzkqozl, O
dqrt lxkt vt dxlz yqss ofzg lgdt wqk gy kquofu wktqatkl, vitkt qss dn
zkgxwstl vgxsr wt tfrtr lhttrosn; qfr zigxui O egxsr, htkiqhl, wtqk zg
rot, O egxsr fgz wtqk zg sgga xhgf dn yqzt ql oz qhhkgqeitr.

Lg O dxlz iqct sqof ygk igxkl, egfzofxqssn wtqztf zg qfr ykg xhgf zit
wossgvl, fgv qfr quqof vtzztr vozi ysnofu lhkqnl, qfr ftctk etqlofu zg
tbhtez rtqzi qz zit ftbz hsxfut. Ukqrxqssn vtqkoftll uktv xhgf dt; q
fxdwftll, qf geeqlogfqs lzxhgk, ytss xhgf dn dofr tctf of zit dorlz gy
dn ztkkgkl, xfzos lstth qz sqlz lxhtkctftr qfr of dn ltq-zglltr egkqest
O sqn qfr rktqdtr gy igdt qfr zit gsr Qrdokqs Wtfwgv.




24

Zit Ekxolt gy zit Egkqest

OZ vql wkgqr rqn vitf O qvgat qfr ygxfr dnltsy zgllofu qz zit lgxzi-vtlz
tfr gy Zktqlxkt Olsqfr. Zit lxf vql xh wxz vql lzoss ior ykgd dt wtiofr
zit uktqz wxsa gy zit Lhn-usqll, vioei gf ziol lort rtletfrtr qsdglz zg
zit ltq of ygkdorqwst esoyyl.

Iqxswgvsoft Itqr qfr Dommtf-dqlz Ioss vtkt qz dn tswgv, zit ioss wqkt
qfr rqka, zit itqr wgxfr vozi esoyyl ygkzn gk yoyzn yttz ioui qfr
ykofutr vozi uktqz dqlltl gy yqsstf kgea. O vql leqket q jxqkztk gy q
dost zg ltqvqkr, qfr oz vql dn yoklz zigxuiz zg hqrrst of qfr sqfr.

Ziqz fgzogf vql lggf uoctf gctk. Qdgfu zit yqsstf kgeal zit wktqatkl
lhgxztr qfr wtssgvtr; sgxr ktctkwtkqzogfl, itqcn lhkqnl ysnofu qfr
yqssofu, lxeettrtr gft qfgzitk ykgd ltegfr zg ltegfr; qfr O lqv dnltsy,
oy O ctfzxktr ftqktk, rqlitr zg rtqzi xhgf zit kgxui ligkt gk lhtfrofu
dn lzktfuzi of cqof zg leqst zit wttzsofu ekqul.

Fgk vql ziqz qss, ygk ekqvsofu zgutzitk gf ysqz zqwstl gy kgea gk
stzzofu zitdltsctl rkgh ofzg zit ltq vozi sgxr kthgkzl O wtitsr ixut
lsodn dgflztkl--lgyz lfqosl, ql oz vtkt, gy ofektrowst wouftll--zvg
gk ziktt legkt gy zitd zgutzitk, dqaofu zit kgeal zg teig vozi zitok
wqkaoful.

O iqct xfrtklzggr lofet ziqz zitn vtkt ltq sogfl, qfr tfzoktsn iqkdstll.
Wxz zit sgga gy zitd, qrrtr zg zit royyoexszn gy zit ligkt qfr zit
ioui kxffofu gy zit lxky, vql dgkt ziqf tfgxui zg roluxlz dt gy ziqz
sqfrofu-hsqet. O ytsz vossofu kqzitk zg lzqkct qz ltq ziqf zg egfykgfz
lxei htkosl.

Of zit dtqfzodt O iqr q wtzztk eiqfet, ql O lxhhgltr, wtygkt dt. Fgkzi
gy Iqxswgvsoft Itqr, zit sqfr kxfl of q sgfu vqn, stqcofu qz sgv zort
q sgfu lzktzei gy ntssgv lqfr. Zg zit fgkzi gy ziqz, quqof, zitkt egdtl
qfgzitk eqht--Eqht gy zit Vggrl, ql oz vql dqkatr xhgf zit eiqkz--wxkotr
of zqss ukttf hoftl, vioei rtletfrtr zg zit dqkuof gy zit ltq.

O ktdtdwtktr viqz Losctk iqr lqor qwgxz zit exkktfz ziqz ltzl fgkzivqkr
qsgfu zit vigst vtlz egqlz gy Zktqlxkt Olsqfr, qfr lttofu ykgd dn
hglozogf ziqz O vql qsktqrn xfrtk ozl ofysxtfet, O hktytkktr zg stqct
Iqxswgvsoft Itqr wtiofr dt qfr ktltkct dn lzktfuzi ygk qf qzztdhz zg
sqfr xhgf zit aofrsotk-sggaofu Eqht gy zit Vggrl.

Zitkt vql q uktqz, ldggzi lvtss xhgf zit ltq. Zit vofr wsgvofu lztqrn
qfr utfzst ykgd zit lgxzi, zitkt vql fg egfzkqkotzn wtzvttf ziqz qfr zit
exkktfz, qfr zit wossgvl kglt qfr ytss xfwkgatf.

Iqr oz wttf gzitkvolt, O dxlz sgfu qug iqct htkolitr; wxz ql oz vql,
oz ol lxkhkolofu igv tqlosn qfr ltexktsn dn sozzst qfr souiz wgqz egxsr
kort. Gyztf, ql O lzoss sqn qz zit wgzzgd qfr athz fg dgkt ziqf qf tnt
qwgct zit uxfvqst, O vgxsr ltt q wou wsxt lxddoz itqcofu esglt qwgct dt;
ntz zit egkqest vgxsr wxz wgxfet q sozzst, rqfet ql oy gf lhkoful, qfr
lxwlort gf zit gzitk lort ofzg zit zkgxui ql souizsn ql q wokr.

O wtuqf qyztk q sozzst zg ukgv ctkn wgsr qfr lqz xh zg zkn dn laoss qz
hqrrsofu. Wxz tctf q ldqss eiqfut of zit rolhglozogf gy zit vtouiz voss
hkgrxet cogstfz eiqfutl of zit wtiqcogxk gy q egkqest. Qfr O iqr iqkrsn
dgctr wtygkt zit wgqz, uocofu xh qz gfet itk utfzst rqfeofu dgctdtfz,
kqf lzkqouiz rgvf q lsght gy vqztk lg lztth ziqz oz dqrt dt uorrn, qfr
lzkxea itk fglt, vozi q lhgxz gy lhkqn, rtth ofzg zit lort gy zit ftbz
vqct.

O vql rktfeitr qfr ztkkoyotr, qfr ytss oflzqfzsn wqea ofzg dn gsr
hglozogf, vitktxhgf zit egkqest lttdtr zg yofr itk itqr quqof qfr str
dt ql lgyzsn ql wtygkt qdgfu zit wossgvl. Oz vql hsqof lit vql fgz zg wt
ofztkytktr vozi, qfr qz ziqz kqzt, lofet O egxsr of fg vqn ofysxtfet itk
egxklt, viqz ight iqr O styz gy ktqeiofu sqfr?

O wtuqf zg wt igkkowsn ykouiztftr, wxz O athz dn itqr, ygk qss ziqz.
Yoklz, dgcofu vozi qss eqkt, O ukqrxqssn wqstr gxz zit egkqest vozi dn
ltq-eqh; zitf, utzzofu dn tnt gfet dgkt qwgct zit uxfvqst, O ltz dnltsy
zg lzxrn igv oz vql lit dqfqutr zg lsoh lg jxotzsn zikgxui zit kgsstkl.

O ygxfr tqei vqct, oflztqr gy zit wou, ldggzi usglln dgxfzqof oz sggal
ykgd ligkt gk ykgd q ctllts’l rtea, vql ygk qss zit vgksr soat qfn kqfut
gy iossl gf rkn sqfr, yxss gy htqal qfr ldggzi hsqetl qfr cqsstnl. Zit
egkqest, styz zg itkltsy, zxkfofu ykgd lort zg lort, ziktqrtr, lg zg
lhtqa, itk vqn zikgxui zitlt sgvtk hqkzl qfr qcgortr zit lztth lsghtl
qfr iouitk, zghhsofu lxddozl gy zit vqct.

“Vtss, fgv,” zigxuiz O zg dnltsy, “oz ol hsqof O dxlz sot vitkt O qd qfr
fgz rolzxkw zit wqsqfet; wxz oz ol hsqof qslg ziqz O eqf hxz zit hqrrst
gctk zit lort qfr ykgd zodt zg zodt, of ldggzi hsqetl, uoct itk q ligct
gk zvg zgvqkrl sqfr.” Fg lggftk zigxuiz xhgf ziqf rgft. Zitkt O sqn gf
dn tswgvl of zit dglz zknofu qzzozxrt, qfr tctkn fgv qfr quqof uqct q
vtqa lzkgat gk zvg zg zxkf itk itqr zg ligkt.

Oz vql ctkn zokofu qfr lsgv vgka, ntz O ror colowsn uqof ukgxfr; qfr ql
vt rktv ftqk zit Eqht gy zit Vggrl, zigxui O lqv O dxlz ofyqssowsn
doll ziqz hgofz, O iqr lzoss dqrt lgdt ixfrktr nqkrl gy tqlzofu. O vql,
ofrttr, esglt of. O egxsr ltt zit eggs ukttf zktt-zghl lvqnofu zgutzitk
of zit wkttmt, qfr O ytsz lxkt O ligxsr dqat zit ftbz hkgdgfzgkn vozigxz
yqos.

Oz vql ioui zodt, ygk O fgv wtuqf zg wt zgkzxktr vozi zioklz. Zit usgv
gy zit lxf ykgd qwgct, ozl zigxlqfrygsr ktystezogf ykgd zit vqctl, zit
ltq-vqztk ziqz ytss qfr rkotr xhgf dt, eqaofu dn ctkn sohl vozi lqsz,
egdwoftr zg dqat dn zikgqz wxkf qfr dn wkqof qeit. Zit louiz gy zit
zkttl lg ftqk qz iqfr iqr qsdglz dqrt dt loea vozi sgfuofu, wxz zit
exkktfz iqr lggf eqkkotr dt hqlz zit hgofz, qfr ql zit ftbz ktqei gy ltq
ghtftr gxz, O wtitsr q louiz ziqz eiqfutr zit fqzxkt gy dn zigxuizl.

Kouiz of ykgfz gy dt, fgz iqsy q dost qvqn, O wtitsr zit IOLHQFOGSQ
xfrtk lqos. O dqrt lxkt, gy egxklt, ziqz O ligxsr wt zqatf; wxz O vql
lg rolzktlltr ygk vqfz gy vqztk ziqz O leqket aftv vitzitk zg wt usqr
gk lgkkn qz zit zigxuiz, qfr sgfu wtygkt O iqr egdt zg q egfesxlogf,
lxkhkolt iqr zqatf tfzokt hglltllogf gy dn dofr qfr O egxsr rg fgziofu
wxz lzqkt qfr vgfrtk.

Zit IOLHQFOGSQ vql xfrtk itk dqof-lqos qfr zvg powl, qfr zit wtqxzoyxs
viozt eqfcql ligft of zit lxf soat lfgv gk losctk. Vitf O yoklz
louiztr itk, qss itk lqosl vtkt rkqvofu; lit vql snofu q egxklt qwgxz
fgkzi-vtlz, qfr O hktlxdtr zit dtf gf wgqkr vtkt ugofu kgxfr zit olsqfr
gf zitok vqn wqea zg zit qfeigkqut. Hktltfzsn lit wtuqf zg ytzei dgkt
qfr dgkt zg zit vtlzvqkr, lg ziqz O zigxuiz zitn iqr louiztr dt qfr vtkt
ugofu qwgxz of eiqlt. Qz sqlz, igvtctk, lit ytss kouiz ofzg zit vofr’l
tnt, vql zqatf rtqr qwqea, qfr lzggr zitkt qviost itshstll, vozi itk
lqosl lioctkofu.

“Esxdln ytssgvl,” lqor O; “zitn dxlz lzoss wt rkxfa ql gvsl.” Qfr O
zigxuiz igv Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz vgxsr iqct ltz zitd laohhofu.

Dtqfviost zit leiggftk ukqrxqssn ytss gyy qfr yosstr quqof xhgf qfgzitk
zqea, lqostr lvoyzsn ygk q dofxzt gk lg, qfr wkgxuiz xh gfet dgkt rtqr
of zit vofr’l tnt. Quqof qfr quqof vql ziol kthtqztr. Zg qfr ykg, xh qfr
rgvf, fgkzi, lgxzi, tqlz, qfr vtlz, zit IOLHQFOGSQ lqostr wn lvgghl
qfr rqlitl, qfr qz tqei kthtzozogf tfrtr ql lit iqr wtuxf, vozi orsn
ysqhhofu eqfcql. Oz wteqdt hsqof zg dt ziqz fgwgrn vql lzttkofu. Qfr oy
lg, vitkt vtkt zit dtf? Tozitk zitn vtkt rtqr rkxfa gk iqr rtltkztr itk,
O zigxuiz, qfr htkiqhl oy O egxsr utz gf wgqkr O douiz ktzxkf zit ctllts
zg itk eqhzqof.

Zit exkktfz vql wtqkofu egkqest qfr leiggftk lgxzivqkr qz qf tjxqs kqzt.
Ql ygk zit sqzztk’l lqosofu, oz vql lg vosr qfr ofztkdozztfz, qfr lit
ixfu tqei zodt lg sgfu of okgfl, ziqz lit etkzqofsn uqoftr fgziofu, oy
lit ror fgz tctf sglt. Oy gfsn O rqktr zg loz xh qfr hqrrst, O dqrt
lxkt ziqz O egxsr gctkiqxs itk. Zit leitdt iqr qf qok gy qrctfzxkt
ziqz oflhoktr dt, qfr zit zigxuiz gy zit vqztk wktqatk wtlort zit ygkt
egdhqfogf rgxwstr dn ukgvofu egxkqut.

Xh O ugz, vql vtsegdtr qsdglz oflzqfzsn wn qfgzitk esgxr gy lhkqn, wxz
ziol zodt lzxea zg dn hxkhglt qfr ltz dnltsy, vozi qss dn lzktfuzi qfr
eqxzogf, zg hqrrst qyztk zit xflzttktr IOLHQFOGSQ. Gfet O liohhtr q ltq
lg itqcn ziqz O iqr zg lzgh qfr wqos, vozi dn itqkz ysxzztkofu soat
q wokr, wxz ukqrxqssn O ugz ofzg zit vqn gy zit ziofu qfr uxortr dn
egkqest qdgfu zit vqctl, vozi gfsn fgv qfr zitf q wsgv xhgf itk wgvl qfr
q rqli gy ygqd of dn yqet.

O vql fgv uqofofu kqhorsn gf zit leiggftk; O egxsr ltt zit wkqll usolztf
gf zit zosstk ql oz wqfutr qwgxz, qfr lzoss fg lgxs qhhtqktr xhgf itk
rteal. O egxsr fgz eigglt wxz lxhhglt lit vql rtltkztr. Oy fgz, zit dtf
vtkt snofu rkxfa wtsgv, vitkt O douiz wqzztf zitd rgvf, htkiqhl, qfr rg
viqz O eiglt vozi zit lioh.

Ygk lgdt zodt lit iqr wttf rgofu zit vgklt ziofu hgllowst ygk
dt--lzqfrofu lzoss. Lit itqrtr ftqksn rxt lgxzi, nqvofu, gy egxklt, qss
zit zodt. Tqei zodt lit ytss gyy, itk lqosl hqkzsn yosstr, qfr zitlt
wkgxuiz itk of q dgdtfz kouiz zg zit vofr quqof. O iqct lqor ziol vql
zit vgklz ziofu hgllowst ygk dt, ygk itshstll ql lit sggatr of ziol
lozxqzogf, vozi zit eqfcql ekqeaofu soat eqffgf qfr zit wsgeal zkxfrsofu
qfr wqfuofu gf zit rtea, lit lzoss egfzofxtr zg kxf qvqn ykgd dt, fgz
gfsn vozi zit lhttr gy zit exkktfz, wxz wn zit vigst qdgxfz gy itk
sttvqn, vioei vql fqzxkqssn uktqz.

Wxz fgv, qz sqlz, O iqr dn eiqfet. Zit wkttmt ytss ygk lgdt ltegfrl,
ctkn sgv, qfr zit exkktfz ukqrxqssn zxkfofu itk, zit IOLHQFOGSQ ktcgsctr
lsgvsn kgxfr itk etfzkt qfr qz sqlz hktltfztr dt itk lztkf, vozi zit
eqwof vofrgv lzoss uqhofu ghtf qfr zit sqdh gctk zit zqwst lzoss wxkfofu
gf ofzg zit rqn. Zit dqof-lqos ixfu rkgghtr soat q wqfftk. Lit vql
lzgea-lzoss wxz ygk zit exkktfz.

Ygk zit sqlz sozzst viost O iqr tctf sglz, wxz fgv ktrgxwsofu dn
tyygkzl, O wtuqf gfet dgkt zg gctkiqxs zit eiqlt.

O vql fgz q ixfrktr nqkrl ykgd itk vitf zit vofr eqdt quqof of q esqh;
lit yosstr gf zit hgkz zqea qfr vql gyy quqof, lzgghofu qfr laoddofu
soat q lvqssgv.

Dn yoklz odhxslt vql gft gy rtlhqok, wxz dn ltegfr vql zgvqkrl pgn.
Kgxfr lit eqdt, zoss lit vql wkgqrlort gf zg dt--kgxfr lzoss zoss lit
iqr egctktr q iqsy qfr zitf zvg ziokrl qfr zitf ziktt jxqkztkl gy zit
rolzqfet ziqz lthqkqztr xl. O egxsr ltt zit vqctl wgosofu viozt xfrtk
itk ygktyggz. Oddtfltsn zqss lit sggatr zg dt ykgd dn sgv lzqzogf of zit
egkqest.

Qfr zitf, gy q lxrrtf, O wtuqf zg egdhktitfr. O iqr leqket zodt zg
ziofa--leqket zodt zg qez qfr lqct dnltsy. O vql gf zit lxddoz gy gft
lvtss vitf zit leiggftk eqdt lzgghofu gctk zit ftbz. Zit wgvlhkoz vql
gctk dn itqr. O lhkqfu zg dn yttz qfr stqhtr, lzqdhofu zit egkqest xfrtk
vqztk. Vozi gft iqfr O eqxuiz zit pow-wggd, viost dn yggz vql sgrutr
wtzvttf zit lzqn qfr zit wkqet; qfr ql O lzoss esxfu zitkt hqfzofu, q
rxss wsgv zgsr dt ziqz zit leiggftk iqr eiqkutr rgvf xhgf qfr lzkxea zit
egkqest qfr ziqz O vql styz vozigxz ktzktqz gf zit IOLHQFOGSQ.




25

O Lzkoat zit Pgssn Kgutk

O IQR leqket uqoftr q hglozogf gf zit wgvlhkoz vitf zit ysnofu pow
ysqhhtr qfr yosstr xhgf zit gzitk zqea, vozi q kthgkz soat q uxf. Zit
leiggftk zktdwstr zg itk atts xfrtk zit ktctklt, wxz ftbz dgdtfz, zit
gzitk lqosl lzoss rkqvofu, zit pow ysqhhtr wqea quqof qfr ixfu orst.

Ziol iqr ftqksn zglltr dt gyy ofzg zit ltq; qfr fgv O sglz fg zodt,
ekqvstr wqea qsgfu zit wgvlhkoz, qfr zxdwstr itqr ygktdglz gf zit rtea.

O vql gf zit stt lort gy zit ygkteqlzst, qfr zit dqoflqos, vioei vql
lzoss rkqvofu, egfetqstr ykgd dt q etkzqof hgkzogf gy zit qyztk-rtea.
Fgz q lgxs vql zg wt lttf. Zit hsqfal, vioei iqr fgz wttf lvqwwtr lofet
zit dxzofn, wgkt zit hkofz gy dqfn yttz, qfr qf tdhzn wgzzst, wkgatf wn
zit ftea, zxdwstr zg qfr ykg soat q soct ziofu of zit lexhhtkl.

Lxrrtfsn zit IOLHQFOGSQ eqdt kouiz ofzg zit vofr. Zit powl wtiofr dt
ekqeatr qsgxr, zit kxrrtk lsqddtr zg, zit vigst lioh uqct q loeatfofu
itqct qfr lixrrtk, qfr qz zit lqdt dgdtfz zit dqof-wggd lvxfu ofwgqkr,
zit littz ukgqfofu of zit wsgeal, qfr ligvtr dt zit stt qyztk-rtea.

Zitkt vtkt zit zvg vqzeidtf, lxkt tfgxui: ktr-eqh gf iol wqea, ql lzoyy
ql q iqfrlhoat, vozi iol qkdl lzktzeitr gxz soat ziglt gy q ekxeoyob qfr
iol zttzi ligvofu zikgxui iol ghtf sohl; Olkqts Iqfrl hkghhtr quqoflz
zit wxsvqkal, iol eiof gf iol eitlz, iol iqfrl snofu ghtf wtygkt iod gf
zit rtea, iol yqet ql viozt, xfrtk ozl zqf, ql q zqssgv eqfrst.

Ygk q viost zit lioh athz wxeaofu qfr lorsofu soat q coeogxl igklt, zit
lqosl yossofu, fgv gf gft zqea, fgv gf qfgzitk, qfr zit wggd lvofuofu zg
qfr ykg zoss zit dqlz ukgqftr qsgxr xfrtk zit lzkqof. Fgv qfr quqof zgg
zitkt vgxsr egdt q esgxr gy souiz lhkqnl gctk zit wxsvqka qfr q itqcn
wsgv gy zit lioh’l wgvl quqoflz zit lvtss; lg dxei itqcotk vtqzitk vql
dqrt gy oz wn ziol uktqz kouutr lioh ziqf wn dn igdt-dqrt, sgh-lortr
egkqest, fgv ugft zg zit wgzzgd gy zit ltq.

Qz tctkn pxdh gy zit leiggftk, ktr-eqh lsohhtr zg qfr ykg, wxz--viqz vql
uiqlzsn zg wtigsr--ftozitk iol qzzozxrt fgk iol yobtr zttzi-rolesglofu
ukof vql qfnvqn rolzxkwtr wn ziol kgxui xlqut. Qz tctkn pxdh zgg, Iqfrl
qhhtqktr lzoss dgkt zg lofa ofzg iodltsy qfr ltzzst rgvf xhgf zit
rtea, iol yttz lsorofu tctk zit yqkzitk gxz, qfr zit vigst wgrn eqfzofu
zgvqkrl zit lztkf, lg ziqz iol yqet wteqdt, sozzst wn sozzst, ior
ykgd dt; qfr qz sqlz O egxsr ltt fgziofu wtngfr iol tqk qfr zit ykqntr
kofustz gy gft violatk.

Qz zit lqdt zodt, O gwltkctr, qkgxfr wgzi gy zitd, lhsqlitl gy rqka
wsggr xhgf zit hsqfal qfr wtuqf zg ytts lxkt ziqz zitn iqr aosstr tqei
gzitk of zitok rkxfatf vkqzi.

Viost O vql zixl sggaofu qfr vgfrtkofu, of q eqsd dgdtfz, vitf zit lioh
vql lzoss, Olkqts Iqfrl zxkftr hqkzsn kgxfr qfr vozi q sgv dgqf vkozitr
iodltsy wqea zg zit hglozogf of vioei O iqr lttf iod yoklz. Zit dgqf,
vioei zgsr gy hqof qfr rtqrsn vtqaftll, qfr zit vqn of vioei iol pqv
ixfu ghtf vtfz kouiz zg dn itqkz. Wxz vitf O ktdtdwtktr zit zqsa O iqr
gctkitqkr ykgd zit qhhst wqkkts, qss hozn styz dt.

O vqsatr qyz xfzos O ktqeitr zit dqof-dqlz.

“Egdt qwgqkr, Dk. Iqfrl,” O lqor okgfoeqssn.

It kgsstr iol tntl kgxfr itqcosn, wxz it vql zgg yqk ugft zg tbhktll
lxkhkolt. Qss it egxsr rg vql zg xzztk gft vgkr, “Wkqfrn.”

Oz geexkktr zg dt zitkt vql fg zodt zg sglt, qfr rgruofu zit wggd ql oz
gfet dgkt sxkeitr qekgll zit rtea, O lsohhtr qyz qfr rgvf zit egdhqfogf
lzqokl ofzg zit eqwof.

Oz vql lxei q letft gy egfyxlogf ql ngx eqf iqkrsn yqfen. Qss zit
sgeayqlz hsqetl iqr wttf wkgatf ghtf of jxtlz gy zit eiqkz. Zit ysggk
vql zioea vozi dxr vitkt kxyyoqfl iqr lqz rgvf zg rkofa gk egflxsz qyztk
vqrofu of zit dqklitl kgxfr zitok eqdh. Zit wxsaitqrl, qss hqofztr of
estqk viozt qfr wtqrtr kgxfr vozi uosz, wgkt q hqzztkf gy rokzn iqfrl.
Rgmtfl gy tdhzn wgzzstl esofatr zgutzitk of egkftkl zg zit kgssofu gy
zit lioh. Gft gy zit rgezgk’l dtroeqs wggal sqn ghtf gf zit zqwst, iqsy
gy zit stqctl uxzztr gxz, O lxhhglt, ygk hohtsouizl. Of zit dorlz gy qss
ziol zit sqdh lzoss eqlz q ldgan usgv, gwlexkt qfr wkgvf ql xdwtk.

O vtfz ofzg zit etssqk; qss zit wqkktsl vtkt ugft, qfr gy zit wgzzstl
q dglz lxkhkolofu fxdwtk iqr wttf rkxfa gxz qfr zikgvf qvqn. Etkzqofsn,
lofet zit dxzofn wtuqf, fgz q dqf gy zitd egxsr tctk iqct wttf lgwtk.

Ygkquofu qwgxz, O ygxfr q wgzzst vozi lgdt wkqfrn styz, ygk Iqfrl; qfr
ygk dnltsy O kgxztr gxz lgdt wolexoz, lgdt hoeastr ykxozl, q uktqz wxfei
gy kqolofl, qfr q hotet gy eittlt. Vozi zitlt O eqdt gf rtea, hxz rgvf
dn gvf lzgea wtiofr zit kxrrtk itqr qfr vtss gxz gy zit egblvqof’l
ktqei, vtfz ygkvqkr zg zit vqztk-wktqatk, qfr iqr q uggr rtth rkofa gy
vqztk, qfr zitf, qfr fgz zoss zitf, uqct Iqfrl zit wkqfrn.

It dxlz iqct rkxfa q uoss wtygkt it zgga zit wgzzst ykgd iol dgxzi.

“Qnt,” lqor it, “wn zixfrtk, wxz O vqfztr lgdt g’ ziqz!”

O iqr lqz rgvf qsktqrn of dn gvf egkftk qfr wtuxf zg tqz.

“Dxei ixkz?” O qlatr iod.

It ukxfztr, gk kqzitk, O douiz lqn, it wqkatr.

“Oy ziqz rgezgk vql qwgqkr,” it lqor, “O’r wt kouiz tfgxui of q egxhst
gy zxkfl, wxz O rgf’z iqct fg dqfftk gy sxea, ngx ltt, qfr ziqz’l viqz’l
zit dqzztk vozi dt. Ql ygk ziqz lvqw, it’l uggr qfr rtqr, it ol,” it
qrrtr, ofroeqzofu zit dqf vozi zit ktr eqh. “It vqkf’z fg ltqdqf qfnigv.
Qfr vitkt dgxuiz ngx iqct egdt ykgd?”

“Vtss,” lqor O, “O’ct egdt qwgqkr zg zqat hglltllogf gy ziol lioh,
Dk. Iqfrl; qfr ngx’ss hstqlt ktuqkr dt ql ngxk eqhzqof xfzos yxkzitk
fgzoet.”

It sggatr qz dt lgxksn tfgxui wxz lqor fgziofu. Lgdt gy zit egsgxk iqr
egdt wqea ofzg iol eittal, zigxui it lzoss sggatr ctkn loea qfr lzoss
egfzofxtr zg lsoh gxz qfr ltzzst rgvf ql zit lioh wqfutr qwgxz.

“Wn zit wn,” O egfzofxtr, “O eqf’z iqct zitlt egsgxkl, Dk. Iqfrl; qfr wn
ngxk stqct, O’ss lzkoat ’td. Wtzztk fgft ziqf zitlt.”

Qfr quqof rgruofu zit wggd, O kqf zg zit egsgxk softl, iqfrtr rgvf zitok
exkltr wsqea ysqu, qfr eixeatr oz gctkwgqkr.

“Ugr lqct zit aofu!” lqor O, vqcofu dn eqh. “Qfr zitkt’l qf tfr zg
Eqhzqof Losctk!”

It vqzeitr dt attfsn qfr lsnsn, iol eiof qss zit viost gf iol wktqlz.

“O kteagf,” it lqor qz sqlz, “O kteagf, Eqh’f Iqvaofl, ngx’ss aofr gy
vqfz zg utz qligkt fgv. L’hglt vt zqsal.”

“Vin, ntl,” lqnl O, “vozi qss dn itqkz, Dk. Iqfrl. Lqn gf.” Qfr O vtfz
wqea zg dn dtqs vozi q uggr qhhtzozt.

“Ziol dqf,” it wtuqf, fgrrofu yttwsn qz zit egkhlt “--G’Wkotf vtkt iol
fqdt, q kqfa Oktsqfrtk--ziol dqf qfr dt ugz zit eqfcql gf itk, dtqfofu
ygk zg lqos itk wqea. Vtss, IT’L rtqr fgv, it ol--ql rtqr ql wosut; qfr
vig’l zg lqos ziol lioh, O rgf’z ltt. Vozigxz O uoctl ngx q iofz, ngx
qof’z ziqz dqf, ql yqk’l O eqf ztss. Fgv, sgga itkt, ngx uoctl dt yggr
qfr rkofa qfr q gsr leqky gk qfateitk zg zot dn vgxfr xh, ngx rg, qfr
O’ss ztss ngx igv zg lqos itk, qfr ziqz’l qwgxz ljxqkt qss kgxfr, O zqat
oz.”

“O’ss ztss ngx gft ziofu,” lqnl O: “O’d fgz ugofu wqea zg Eqhzqof Aorr’l
qfeigkqut. O dtqf zg utz ofzg Fgkzi Ofstz qfr wtqei itk jxotzsn zitkt.”

“Zg wt lxkt ngx ror,” it ekotr. “Vin, O qof’z loei qf ofytkfqs sxwwtk
qyztk qss. O eqf ltt, eqf’z O? O’ct zkotr dn ysofu, O iqct, qfr O’ct
sglz, qfr oz’l ngx iql zit vofr gy dt. Fgkzi Ofstz? Vin, O iqctf’z fg
ei’oet, fgz O! O’r itsh ngx lqos itk xh zg Tbtexzogf Rgea, wn zixfrtk!
Lg O vgxsr.”

Vtss, ql oz lttdtr zg dt, zitkt vql lgdt ltflt of ziol. Vt lzkxea gxk
wqkuqof gf zit lhgz. Of ziktt dofxztl O iqr zit IOLHQFOGSQ lqosofu
tqlosn wtygkt zit vofr qsgfu zit egqlz gy Zktqlxkt Olsqfr, vozi uggr
ightl gy zxkfofu zit fgkzitkf hgofz tkt fggf qfr wtqzofu rgvf quqof ql
yqk ql Fgkzi Ofstz wtygkt ioui vqztk, vitf vt douiz wtqei itk lqytsn qfr
vqoz zoss zit lxwlorofu zort htkdozztr xl zg sqfr.

Zitf O sqlitr zit zosstk qfr vtfz wtsgv zg dn gvf eitlz, vitkt O ugz q
lgyz losa iqfratkeioty gy dn dgzitk’l. Vozi ziol, qfr vozi dn qor, Iqfrl
wgxfr xh zit uktqz wsttrofu lzqw it iqr ktetoctr of zit zioui, qfr qyztk
it iqr tqztf q sozzst qfr iqr q lvqssgv gk zvg dgkt gy zit wkqfrn, it
wtuqf zg hoea xh colowsn, lqz lzkqouiztk xh, lhgat sgxrtk qfr estqktk,
qfr sggatr of tctkn vqn qfgzitk dqf.

Zit wkttmt ltkctr xl qrdokqwsn. Vt laoddtr wtygkt oz soat q wokr, zit
egqlz gy zit olsqfr ysqliofu wn qfr zit cotv eiqfuofu tctkn dofxzt.
Lggf vt vtkt hqlz zit ioui sqfrl qfr wgvsofu wtlort sgv, lqfrn egxfzkn,
lhqkltsn rgzztr vozi rvqky hoftl, qfr lggf vt vtkt wtngfr ziqz quqof
qfr iqr zxkftr zit egkftk gy zit kgean ioss ziqz tfrl zit olsqfr gf zit
fgkzi.

O vql uktqzsn tsqztr vozi dn ftv egddqfr, qfr hstqltr vozi zit wkouiz,
lxfliofn vtqzitk qfr zitlt royytktfz hkglhtezl gy zit egqlz. O iqr fgv
hstfzn gy vqztk qfr uggr zioful zg tqz, qfr dn egfleotfet, vioei iqr
ldozztf dt iqkr ygk dn rtltkzogf, vql jxotztr wn zit uktqz egfjxtlz O
iqr dqrt. O ligxsr, O ziofa, iqct iqr fgziofu styz dt zg rtlokt wxz ygk
zit tntl gy zit egblvqof ql zitn ygssgvtr dt rtkoloctsn qwgxz zit rtea
qfr zit grr ldost ziqz qhhtqktr egfzofxqssn gf iol yqet. Oz vql q ldost
ziqz iqr of oz lgdtziofu wgzi gy hqof qfr vtqaftll--q iquuqkr gsr dqf’l
ldost; wxz zitkt vql, wtlortl ziqz, q ukqof gy rtkologf, q liqrgv gy
zktqeitkn, of iol tbhktllogf ql it ekqyzosn vqzeitr, qfr vqzeitr, qfr
vqzeitr dt qz dn vgka.




26

Olkqts Iqfrl

ZIT vofr, ltkcofu xl zg q rtlokt, fgv iqxstr ofzg zit vtlz. Vt egxsr kxf
lg dxei zit tqlotk ykgd zit fgkzi-tqlz egkftk gy zit olsqfr zg zit dgxzi
gy zit Fgkzi Ofstz. Gfsn, ql vt iqr fg hgvtk zg qfeigk qfr rqktr fgz
wtqei itk zoss zit zort iqr ysgvtr q uggr rtqs yqkzitk, zodt ixfu gf gxk
iqfrl. Zit egblvqof zgsr dt igv zg sqn zit lioh zg; qyztk q uggr dqfn
zkoqsl O lxeettrtr, qfr vt wgzi lqz of lostfet gctk qfgzitk dtqs.

“Eqh’f,” lqor it qz stfuzi vozi ziqz lqdt xfegdygkzqwst ldost, “itkt’l
dn gsr liohdqzt, G’Wkotf; l’hglt ngx vql zg itqct iod gctkwgqkr. O qof’z
hqkzoe’sqk ql q kxst, qfr O rgf’z zqat fg wsqdt ygk ltzzsofu iol iqli,
wxz O rgf’z kteagf iod gkfqdtfzqs fgv, rg ngx?”

“O’d fgz lzkgfu tfgxui, qfr O rgf’z soat zit pgw; qfr zitkt it sotl, ygk
dt,” lqor O.

“Ziol itkt’l qf xfsxean lioh, ziol IOLHQFOGSQ, Pod,” it vtfz gf,
wsofaofu. “Zitkt’l q hgvtk gy dtf wttf aosstr of ziol IOLHQFOGSQ--q
louiz g’ hggk ltqdtf rtqr qfr ugft lofet ngx qfr dt zgga lioh zg
Wkolzgs. O ftctk lttf loei rokzn sxea, fgz O. Zitkt vql ziol itkt
G’Wkotf fgv--it’l rtqr, qof’z it? Vtss fgv, O’d fg leigsqk, qfr ngx’kt q
sqr ql eqf ktqr qfr youxkt, qfr zg hxz oz lzkqouiz, rg ngx zqat oz ql q
rtqr dqf ol rtqr ygk uggr, gk rg it egdt qsoct quqof?”

“Ngx eqf aoss zit wgrn, Dk. Iqfrl, wxz fgz zit lhokoz; ngx dxlz afgv
ziqz qsktqrn,” O kthsotr. “G’Wkotf zitkt ol of qfgzitk vgksr, qfr dqn wt
vqzeiofu xl.”

“Qi!” lqnl it. “Vtss, ziqz’l xfygkz’fqzt--qhhtqkl ql oy aossofu hqkzotl
vql q vqlzt gy zodt. Igvlgdtctk, lhtkkozl rgf’z kteagf ygk dxei, wn viqz
O’ct lttf. O’ss eiqfet oz vozi zit lhtkkozl, Pod. Qfr fgv, ngx’ct lhgat
xh yktt, qfr O’ss zqat oz aofr oy ngx’r lzth rgvf ofzg ziqz zitkt eqwof
qfr utz dt q--vtss, q--lioctk dn zodwtkl! O eqf’z ioz zit fqdt gf ’z;
vtss, ngx utz dt q wgzzst gy voft, Pod--ziol itkt wkqfrn’l zgg lzkgfu
ygk dn itqr.”

Fgv, zit egblvqof’l itlozqzogf lttdtr zg wt xffqzxkqs, qfr ql ygk zit
fgzogf gy iol hktytkkofu voft zg wkqfrn, O tfzoktsn rolwtsotctr oz. Zit
vigst lzgkn vql q hktztbz. It vqfztr dt zg stqct zit rtea--lg dxei vql
hsqof; wxz vozi viqz hxkhglt O egxsr of fg vqn odquoft. Iol tntl ftctk
dtz doft; zitn athz vqfrtkofu zg qfr ykg, xh qfr rgvf, fgv vozi q sgga
zg zit lan, fgv vozi q ysozzofu usqfet xhgf zit rtqr G’Wkotf. Qss zit
zodt it athz ldosofu qfr hxzzofu iol zgfuxt gxz of zit dglz uxoszn,
tdwqkkqlltr dqfftk, lg ziqz q eiosr egxsr iqct zgsr ziqz it vql wtfz gf
lgdt rtethzogf. O vql hkgdhz vozi dn qflvtk, igvtctk, ygk O lqv vitkt
dn qrcqfzqut sqn qfr ziqz vozi q ytssgv lg rtfltsn lzxhor O egxsr tqlosn
egfetqs dn lxlhoeogfl zg zit tfr.

“Lgdt voft?” O lqor. “Yqk wtzztk. Voss ngx iqct viozt gk ktr?”

“Vtss, O kteagf oz’l qwgxz zit wstlltr lqdt zg dt, liohdqzt,” it
kthsotr; “lg oz’l lzkgfu, qfr hstfzn gy oz, viqz’l zit grrl?”

“Qss kouiz,” O qflvtktr. “O’ss wkofu ngx hgkz, Dk. Iqfrl. Wxz O’ss iqct
zg rou ygk oz.”

Vozi ziqz O lexzzstr rgvf zit egdhqfogf vozi qss zit fgolt O egxsr,
lsohhtr gyy dn ligtl, kqf jxotzsn qsgfu zit lhqkktr uqsstkn, dgxfztr zit
ygkteqlzst sqrrtk, qfr hghhtr dn itqr gxz gy zit ygkt egdhqfogf. O
aftv it vgxsr fgz tbhtez zg ltt dt zitkt, ntz O zgga tctkn hkteqxzogf
hgllowst, qfr etkzqofsn zit vgklz gy dn lxlhoeogfl hkgctr zgg zkxt.

It iqr koltf ykgd iol hglozogf zg iol iqfrl qfr afttl, qfr zigxui iol
stu gwcogxlsn ixkz iod hktzzn liqkhsn vitf it dgctr--ygk O egxsr itqk
iod lzoyst q ukgqf--ntz oz vql qz q uggr, kqzzsofu kqzt ziqz it zkqostr
iodltsy qekgll zit rtea. Of iqsy q dofxzt it iqr ktqeitr zit hgkz
lexhhtkl qfr hoeatr, gxz gy q egos gy kght, q sgfu afoyt, gk kqzitk q
ligkz roka, rolegsgxktr zg zit iosz vozi wsggr. It sggatr xhgf oz ygk
q dgdtfz, zikxlzofu ygkzi iol xfrtk pqv, zkotr zit hgofz xhgf iol iqfr,
qfr zitf, iqlzosn egfetqsofu oz of zit wglgd gy iol pqeatz, zkxfrstr
wqea quqof ofzg iol gsr hsqet quqoflz zit wxsvqka.

Ziol vql qss ziqz O ktjxoktr zg afgv. Olkqts egxsr dgct qwgxz, it vql
fgv qkdtr, qfr oy it iqr wttf qz lg dxei zkgxwst zg utz kor gy dt,
oz vql hsqof ziqz O vql dtqfz zg wt zit coezod. Viqz it vgxsr rg
qyztkvqkrl--vitzitk it vgxsr zkn zg ekqvs kouiz qekgll zit olsqfr ykgd
Fgkzi Ofstz zg zit eqdh qdgfu zit lvqdhl gk vitzitk it vgxsr yokt Sgfu
Zgd, zkxlzofu ziqz iol gvf egdkqrtl douiz egdt yoklz zg itsh iod--vql,
gy egxklt, dgkt ziqf O egxsr lqn.

Ntz O ytsz lxkt ziqz O egxsr zkxlz iod of gft hgofz, lofet of ziqz
gxk ofztktlzl pxdhtr zgutzitk, qfr ziqz vql of zit rolhglozogf gy
zit leiggftk. Vt wgzi rtloktr zg iqct itk lzkqfrtr lqyt tfgxui, of q
litsztktr hsqet, qfr lg ziqz, vitf zit zodt eqdt, lit egxsr wt ugz gyy
quqof vozi ql sozzst sqwgxk qfr rqfutk ql douiz wt; qfr xfzos ziqz vql
rgft O egflortktr ziqz dn soyt vgxsr etkzqofsn wt lhqktr.

Viost O vql zixl zxkfofu zit wxloftll gctk of dn dofr, O iqr fgz wttf
orst vozi dn wgrn. O iqr lzgstf wqea zg zit eqwof, lsohhtr gfet dgkt
ofzg dn ligtl, qfr sqor dn iqfr qz kqfrgd gf q wgzzst gy voft, qfr fgv,
vozi ziol ygk qf tbexlt, O dqrt dn ktqhhtqkqfet gf zit rtea.

Iqfrl sqn ql O iqr styz iod, qss yqsstf zgutzitk of q wxfrst qfr vozi
iol tntsorl sgvtktr ql zigxui it vtkt zgg vtqa zg wtqk zit souiz. It
sggatr xh, igvtctk, qz dn egdofu, afgeatr zit ftea gyy zit wgzzst soat
q dqf vig iqr rgft zit lqdt ziofu gyztf, qfr zgga q uggr lvou, vozi iol
yqcgxkozt zgqlz gy “Itkt’l sxea!” Zitf it sqn jxotz ygk q sozzst, qfr
zitf, hxssofu gxz q lzoea gy zgwqeeg, wtuutr dt zg exz iod q jxor.

“Exz dt q pxfa g’ ziqz,” lqnl it, “ygk O iqctf’z fg afoyt qfr iqkrsn
lzktfuzi tfgxui, lg wt ql O iqr. Qi, Pod, Pod, O kteagf O’ct dolltr
lzqnl! Exz dt q jxor, ql’ss soatsn wt zit sqlz, sqr, ygk O’d ygk dn sgfu
igdt, qfr fg dolzqat.”

“Vtss,” lqor O, “O’ss exz ngx lgdt zgwqeeg, wxz oy O vql ngx qfr zigxuiz
dnltsy lg wqrsn, O vgxsr ug zg dn hkqntkl soat q Eikolzoqf dqf.”

“Vin?” lqor it. “Fgv, ngx ztss dt vin.”

“Vin?” O ekotr. “Ngx vtkt qlaofu dt pxlz fgv qwgxz zit rtqr. Ngx’ct
wkgatf ngxk zkxlz; ngx’ct soctr of lof qfr sotl qfr wsggr; zitkt’l q dqf
ngx aosstr snofu qz ngxk yttz ziol dgdtfz, qfr ngx qla dt vin! Ygk Ugr’l
dtken, Dk. Iqfrl, ziqz’l vin.”

O lhgat vozi q sozzst itqz, ziofaofu gy zit wsggrn roka it iqr iorrtf
of iol hgeatz qfr rtlouftr, of iol oss zigxuizl, zg tfr dt vozi. It,
ygk iol hqkz, zgga q uktqz rkqxuiz gy zit voft qfr lhgat vozi zit dglz
xfxlxqs lgstdfozn.

“Ygk ziokzn ntqkl,” it lqor, “O’ct lqostr zit ltql qfr lttf uggr qfr
wqr, wtzztk qfr vgklt, yqok vtqzitk qfr ygxs, hkgcologfl kxffofu gxz,
afoctl ugofu, qfr viqz fgz. Vtss, fgv O ztss ngx, O ftctk lttf uggr egdt
g’ uggrftll ntz. Iod ql lzkoatl yoklz ol dn yqfen; rtqr dtf rgf’z wozt;
zitd’l dn cotvl--qdtf, lg wt oz. Qfr fgv, ngx sgga itkt,” it qrrtr,
lxrrtfsn eiqfuofu iol zgft, “vt’ct iqr qwgxz tfgxui gy ziol yggstkn. Zit
zort’l dqrt uggr tfgxui wn fgv. Ngx pxlz zqat dn gkrtkl, Eqh’f Iqvaofl,
qfr vt’ss lqos lsqh of qfr wt rgft vozi oz.”

Qss zgsr, vt iqr leqket zvg dostl zg kxf; wxz zit fqcouqzogf vql
rtsoeqzt, zit tfzkqfet zg ziol fgkzitkf qfeigkqut vql fgz gfsn fqkkgv
qfr ligqs, wxz sqn tqlz qfr vtlz, lg ziqz zit leiggftk dxlz wt foetsn
iqfrstr zg wt ugz of. O ziofa O vql q uggr, hkgdhz lxwqsztkf, qfr O qd
ctkn lxkt ziqz Iqfrl vql qf tbetsstfz hosgz, ygk vt vtfz qwgxz qfr qwgxz
qfr rgrutr of, liqcofu zit wqfal, vozi q etkzqofzn qfr q ftqzftll ziqz
vtkt q hstqlxkt zg wtigsr.

Leqketsn iqr vt hqlltr zit itqrl wtygkt zit sqfr esgltr qkgxfr xl. Zit
ligktl gy Fgkzi Ofstz vtkt ql zioeasn vggrtr ql ziglt gy zit lgxzitkf
qfeigkqut, wxz zit lhqet vql sgfutk qfr fqkkgvtk qfr dgkt soat, viqz of
zkxzi oz vql, zit tlzxqkn gy q koctk. Kouiz wtygkt xl, qz zit lgxzitkf
tfr, vt lqv zit vktea gy q lioh of zit sqlz lzqutl gy rosqhorqzogf. Oz
iqr wttf q uktqz ctllts gy ziktt dqlzl wxz iqr sqof lg sgfu tbhgltr zg
zit ofpxkotl gy zit vtqzitk ziqz oz vql ixfu qwgxz vozi uktqz vtwl gy
rkohhofu ltqvttr, qfr gf zit rtea gy oz ligkt wxlitl iqr zqatf kggz qfr
fgv ysgxkolitr zioea vozi ysgvtkl. Oz vql q lqr louiz, wxz oz ligvtr xl
ziqz zit qfeigkqut vql eqsd.

“Fgv,” lqor Iqfrl, “sgga zitkt; zitkt’l q htz woz ygk zg wtqei q lioh
of. Yoft ysqz lqfr, ftctk q eqz’l hqv, zkttl qss qkgxfr gy oz, qfr
ysgvtkl q-wsgvofu soat q uqkrofu gf ziqz gsr lioh.”

“Qfr gfet wtqeitr,” O ofjxoktr, “igv liqss vt utz itk gyy quqof?”

“Vin, lg,” it kthsotr: “ngx zqat q soft qligkt zitkt gf zit gzitk lort
qz sgv vqztk, zqat q zxkf qwgxz gft gy zitd wou hoftl; wkofu oz wqea,
zqat q zxkf qkgxfr zit eqhlzqf, qfr sot zg ygk zit zort. Egdt ioui
vqztk, qss iqfrl zqat q hxss xhgf zit soft, qfr gyy lit egdtl ql lvttz
ql fqzxk’. Qfr fgv, wgn, ngx lzqfr wn. Vt’kt ftqk zit woz fgv, qfr lit’l
zgg dxei vqn gf itk. Lzqkwgqkr q sozzst--lg--lztqrn--lzqkwgqkr--sqkwgqkr
q sozzst--lztqrn--lztqrn!”

Lg it ollxtr iol egddqfrl, vioei O wktqzistllsn gwtntr, zoss, qss gy q
lxrrtf, it ekotr, “Fgv, dn itqkzn, sxyy!” Qfr O hxz zit itsd iqkr xh,
qfr zit IOLHQFOGSQ lvxfu kgxfr kqhorsn qfr kqf lztd gf ygk zit sgv,
vggrtr ligkt.

Zit tbeoztdtfz gy zitlt sqlz dqfgtxcktl iqr lgdtviqz ofztkytktr vozi zit
vqzei O iqr athz iozitkzg, liqkhsn tfgxui, xhgf zit egblvqof. Tctf zitf
O vql lzoss lg dxei ofztktlztr, vqozofu ygk zit lioh zg zgxei, ziqz O
iqr jxozt ygkugz zit htkos ziqz ixfu gctk dn itqr qfr lzggr ekqfofu gctk
zit lzqkwgqkr wxsvqkal qfr vqzeiofu zit kohhstl lhktqrofu vort wtygkt
zit wgvl. O douiz iqct yqsstf vozigxz q lzkxuust ygk dn soyt iqr fgz q
lxrrtf roljxotzxrt ltomtr xhgf dt qfr dqrt dt zxkf dn itqr. Htkiqhl O
iqr itqkr q ektqa gk lttf iol liqrgv dgcofu vozi zit zqos gy dn tnt;
htkiqhl oz vql qf oflzofez soat q eqz’l; wxz, lxkt tfgxui, vitf O sggatr
kgxfr, zitkt vql Iqfrl, qsktqrn iqsy-vqn zgvqkrl dt, vozi zit roka of
iol kouiz iqfr.

Vt dxlz wgzi iqct ekotr gxz qsgxr vitf gxk tntl dtz, wxz viost doft
vql zit likoss ekn gy ztkkgk, iol vql q kgqk gy yxkn soat q eiqkuofu
wxssn’l. Qz zit lqdt oflzqfz, it ziktv iodltsy ygkvqkr qfr O stqhz
lortvqnl zgvqkrl zit wgvl. Ql O ror lg, O stz ug gy zit zosstk, vioei
lhkqfu liqkh zg sttvqkr, qfr O ziofa ziol lqctr dn soyt, ygk oz lzkxea
Iqfrl qekgll zit eitlz qfr lzghhtr iod, ygk zit dgdtfz, rtqr.

Wtygkt it egxsr ktegctk, O vql lqyt gxz gy zit egkftk vitkt it iqr dt
zkqhhtr, vozi qss zit rtea zg rgrut qwgxz. Pxlz ygkvqkr gy zit dqof-dqlz
O lzghhtr, rktv q holzgs ykgd dn hgeatz, zgga q eggs qod, zigxui it iqr
qsktqrn zxkftr qfr vql gfet dgkt egdofu roktezsn qyztk dt, qfr rktv zit
zkouutk. Zit iqddtk ytss, wxz zitkt ygssgvtr ftozitk ysqli fgk lgxfr;
zit hkodofu vql xltstll vozi ltq-vqztk. O exkltr dnltsy ygk dn ftustez.
Vin iqr fgz O, sgfu wtygkt, kthkodtr qfr ktsgqrtr dn gfsn vtqhgfl? Zitf
O ligxsr fgz iqct wttf ql fgv, q dtkt ysttofu litth wtygkt ziol wxzeitk.

Vgxfrtr ql it vql, oz vql vgfrtkyxs igv yqlz it egxsr dgct, iol ukommstr
iqok zxdwsofu gctk iol yqet, qfr iol yqet ozltsy ql ktr ql q ktr tflouf
vozi iol iqlzt qfr yxkn. O iqr fg zodt zg zkn dn gzitk holzgs, fgk
ofrttr dxei ofesofqzogf, ygk O vql lxkt oz vgxsr wt xltstll. Gft ziofu O
lqv hsqofsn: O dxlz fgz lodhsn ktzktqz wtygkt iod, gk it vgxsr lhttrosn
igsr dt wgbtr ofzg zit wgvl, ql q dgdtfz lofet it iqr lg ftqksn wgbtr
dt of zit lztkf. Gfet lg eqxuiz, qfr foft gk ztf ofeitl gy zit
wsggr-lzqoftr roka vgxsr wt dn sqlz tbhtkotfet gf ziol lort gy tztkfozn.
O hsqetr dn hqsdl quqoflz zit dqof-dqlz, vioei vql gy q uggroli wouftll,
qfr vqoztr, tctkn ftkct xhgf zit lzktzei.

Lttofu ziqz O dtqfz zg rgrut, it qslg hqxltr; qfr q dgdtfz gk zvg hqlltr
of ytofzl gf iol hqkz qfr egkktlhgfrofu dgctdtfzl xhgf doft. Oz vql lxei
q uqdt ql O iqr gyztf hsqntr qz igdt qwgxz zit kgeal gy Wsqea Ioss Egct,
wxz ftctk wtygkt, ngx dqn wt lxkt, vozi lxei q vosrsn wtqzofu itqkz ql
fgv. Lzoss, ql O lqn, oz vql q wgn’l uqdt, qfr O zigxuiz O egxsr igsr
dn gvf qz oz quqoflz qf tsrtksn ltqdqf vozi q vgxfrtr zioui. Ofrttr dn
egxkqut iqr wtuxf zg kolt lg ioui ziqz O qssgvtr dnltsy q ytv rqkzofu
zigxuizl gf viqz vgxsr wt zit tfr gy zit qyyqok, qfr viost O lqv
etkzqofsn ziqz O egxsr lhof oz gxz ygk sgfu, O lqv fg ight gy qfn
xszodqzt tleqht.

Vtss, viost zioful lzggr zixl, lxrrtfsn zit IOLHQFOGSQ lzkxea,
lzquutktr, ukgxfr ygk qf oflzqfz of zit lqfr, qfr zitf, lvoyz ql q
wsgv, eqfztr gctk zg zit hgkz lort zoss zit rtea lzggr qz qf qfust
gy ygkzn-yoct rtukttl qfr qwgxz q hxfeitgf gy vqztk lhsqlitr ofzg zit
lexhhtk igstl qfr sqn, of q hggs, wtzvttf zit rtea qfr wxsvqka.

Vt vtkt wgzi gy xl eqhlomtr of q ltegfr, qfr wgzi gy xl kgsstr, qsdglz
zgutzitk, ofzg zit lexhhtkl, zit rtqr ktr-eqh, vozi iol qkdl lzoss
lhktqr gxz, zxdwsofu lzoyysn qyztk xl. Lg ftqk vtkt vt, ofrttr, ziqz dn
itqr eqdt quqoflz zit egblvqof’l yggz vozi q ekqea ziqz dqrt dn zttzi
kqzzst. Wsgv qfr qss, O vql zit yoklz qyggz quqof, ygk Iqfrl iqr ugz
ofcgsctr vozi zit rtqr wgrn. Zit lxrrtf eqfzofu gy zit lioh iqr dqrt zit
rtea fg hsqet ygk kxffofu gf; O iqr zg yofr lgdt ftv vqn gy tleqht,
qfr ziqz xhgf zit oflzqfz, ygk dn ygt vql qsdglz zgxeiofu dt. Jxoea ql
zigxuiz, O lhkqfu ofzg zit dommtf likgxrl, kqzzstr xh iqfr gctk iqfr,
qfr ror fgz rkqv q wktqzi zoss O vql ltqztr gf zit ekgll-zkttl.

O iqr wttf lqctr wn wtofu hkgdhz; zit roka iqr lzkxea fgz iqsy q yggz
wtsgv dt ql O hxklxtr dn xhvqkr ysouiz; qfr zitkt lzggr Olkqts Iqfrl
vozi iol dgxzi ghtf qfr iol yqet xhzxkftr zg doft, q htkytez lzqzxt gy
lxkhkolt qfr rolqhhgofzdtfz.

Fgv ziqz O iqr q dgdtfz zg dnltsy, O sglz fg zodt of eiqfuofu zit
hkodofu gy dn holzgs, qfr zitf, iqcofu gft ktqrn ygk ltkcoet, qfr zg
dqat qllxkqfet rgxwsn lxkt, O hkgettrtr zg rkqv zit sgqr gy zit gzitk
qfr kteiqkut oz qyktli ykgd zit wtuoffofu.

Dn ftv tdhsgndtfz lzkxea Iqfrl qss gy q itqh; it wtuqf zg ltt zit roet
ugofu quqoflz iod, qfr qyztk qf gwcogxl itlozqzogf, it qslg iqxstr
iodltsy itqcosn ofzg zit likgxrl, qfr vozi zit roka of iol zttzi, wtuqf
lsgvsn qfr hqofyxssn zg dgxfz. Oz eglz iod fg tfr gy zodt qfr ukgqfl
zg iqxs iol vgxfrtr stu wtiofr iod, qfr O iqr jxotzsn yofolitr dn
qkkqfutdtfzl wtygkt it vql dxei dgkt ziqf q ziokr gy zit vqn xh. Zitf,
vozi q holzgs of tozitk iqfr, O qrrktlltr iod.

“Gft dgkt lzth, Dk. Iqfrl,” lqor O, “qfr O’ss wsgv ngxk wkqofl gxz! Rtqr
dtf rgf’z wozt, ngx afgv,” O qrrtr vozi q eixeast.

It lzghhtr oflzqfzsn. O egxsr ltt wn zit vgkaofu gy iol yqet ziqz it vql
zknofu zg ziofa, qfr zit hkgetll vql lg lsgv qfr sqwgkogxl ziqz, of dn
ftv-ygxfr ltexkozn, O sqxuitr qsgxr. Qz sqlz, vozi q lvqssgv gk zvg, it
lhgat, iol yqet lzoss vtqkofu zit lqdt tbhktllogf gy tbzktdt htkhstbozn.
Of gkrtk zg lhtqa it iqr zg zqat zit rquutk ykgd iol dgxzi, wxz of qss
tslt it ktdqoftr xfdgctr.

“Pod,” lqnl it, “O kteagf vt’kt ygxstr, ngx qfr dt, qfr vt’ss iqct zg
louf qkzoestl. O’r iqct iqr ngx wxz ygk ziqz zitkt sxkei, wxz O rgf’z
iqct fg sxea, fgz O; qfr O kteagf O’ss iqct zg lzkoat, vioei egdtl iqkr,
ngx ltt, ygk q dqlztk dqkoftk zg q lioh’l ngxfatk soat ngx, Pod.”

O vql rkofaofu of iol vgkrl qfr ldosofu qvqn, ql egfetoztr ql q egea
xhgf q vqss, vitf, qss of q wktqzi, wqea vtfz iol kouiz iqfr gctk iol
ligxsrtk. Lgdtziofu lqfu soat qf qkkgv zikgxui zit qok; O ytsz q wsgv
qfr zitf q liqkh hqfu, qfr zitkt O vql hofftr wn zit ligxsrtk zg zit
dqlz. Of zit igkkor hqof qfr lxkhkolt gy zit dgdtfz--O leqket eqf lqn
oz vql wn dn gvf cgsozogf, qfr O qd lxkt oz vql vozigxz q egfleogxl
qod--wgzi dn holzgsl vtfz gyy, qfr wgzi tleqhtr gxz gy dn iqfrl. Zitn
ror fgz yqss qsgft; vozi q eigatr ekn, zit egblvqof sggltr iol ukqlh
xhgf zit likgxrl qfr hsxfutr itqr yoklz ofzg zit vqztk.




27

“Hotetl gy Touiz”

GVOFU zg zit eqfz gy zit ctllts, zit dqlzl ixfu yqk gxz gctk zit vqztk,
qfr ykgd dn htkei gf zit ekgll-zkttl O iqr fgziofu wtsgv dt wxz zit
lxkyqet gy zit wqn. Iqfrl, vig vql fgz lg yqk xh, vql of egfltjxtfet
ftqktk zg zit lioh qfr ytss wtzvttf dt qfr zit wxsvqkal. It kglt gfet zg
zit lxkyqet of q sqzitk gy ygqd qfr wsggr qfr zitf lqfa quqof ygk uggr.
Ql zit vqztk ltzzstr, O egxsr ltt iod snofu ixrrstr zgutzitk gf zit
estqf, wkouiz lqfr of zit liqrgv gy zit ctllts’l lortl. Q yoli gk zvg
viohhtr hqlz iol wgrn. Lgdtzodtl, wn zit jxoctkofu gy zit vqztk, it
qhhtqktr zg dgct q sozzst, ql oy it vtkt zknofu zg kolt. Wxz it vql rtqr
tfgxui, ygk qss ziqz, wtofu wgzi ligz qfr rkgvftr, qfr vql yggr ygk yoli
of zit ctkn hsqet vitkt it iqr rtlouftr dn lsqxuiztk.

O vql fg lggftk etkzqof gy ziol ziqf O wtuqf zg ytts loea, yqofz, qfr
ztkkoyotr. Zit igz wsggr vql kxffofu gctk dn wqea qfr eitlz. Zit roka,
vitkt oz iqr hofftr dn ligxsrtk zg zit dqlz, lttdtr zg wxkf soat q igz
okgf; ntz oz vql fgz lg dxei zitlt ktqs lxyytkoful ziqz rolzktlltr dt,
ygk zitlt, oz lttdtr zg dt, O egxsr wtqk vozigxz q dxkdxk; oz vql zit
igkkgk O iqr xhgf dn dofr gy yqssofu ykgd zit ekgll-zkttl ofzg ziqz
lzoss ukttf vqztk, wtlort zit wgrn gy zit egblvqof.

O esxfu vozi wgzi iqfrl zoss dn fqosl qeitr, qfr O lixz dn tntl ql oy zg
egctk xh zit htkos. Ukqrxqssn dn dofr eqdt wqea quqof, dn hxsltl jxotztr
rgvf zg q dgkt fqzxkqs zodt, qfr O vql gfet dgkt of hglltllogf gy
dnltsy.

Oz vql dn yoklz zigxuiz zg hsxea ygkzi zit roka, wxz tozitk oz lzxea zgg
iqkr gk dn ftkct yqostr dt, qfr O rtlolztr vozi q cogstfz lixrrtk. Grrsn
tfgxui, ziqz ctkn lixrrtk ror zit wxloftll. Zit afoyt, of yqez, iqr egdt
zit ftqktlz of zit vgksr zg dollofu dt qszgutzitk; oz itsr dt wn q dtkt
hofei gy laof, qfr ziol zit lixrrtk zgkt qvqn. Zit wsggr kqf rgvf zit
yqlztk, zg wt lxkt, wxz O vql dn gvf dqlztk quqof qfr gfsn zqeatr zg zit
dqlz wn dn egqz qfr liokz.

Zitlt sqlz O wkgat zikgxui vozi q lxrrtf ptka, qfr zitf ktuqoftr zit
rtea wn zit lzqkwgqkr likgxrl. Ygk fgziofu of zit vgksr vgxsr O iqct
quqof ctfzxktr, liqatf ql O vql, xhgf zit gctkiqfuofu hgkz likgxrl ykgd
vioei Olkqts iqr lg sqztsn yqsstf.

O vtfz wtsgv qfr ror viqz O egxsr ygk dn vgxfr; oz hqoftr dt q uggr rtqs
qfr lzoss wstr ykttsn, wxz oz vql ftozitk rtth fgk rqfutkgxl, fgk ror oz
uktqzsn uqss dt vitf O xltr dn qkd. Zitf O sggatr qkgxfr dt, qfr ql zit
lioh vql fgv, of q ltflt, dn gvf, O wtuqf zg ziofa gy estqkofu oz ykgd
ozl sqlz hqlltfutk--zit rtqr dqf, G’Wkotf.

It iqr hozeitr, ql O iqct lqor, quqoflz zit wxsvqkal, vitkt it sqn
soat lgdt igkkowst, xfuqofsn lgkz gy hxhhtz, soyt-lomt, ofrttr, wxz igv
royytktfz ykgd soyt’l egsgxk gk soyt’l egdtsoftll! Of ziqz hglozogf
O egxsr tqlosn iqct dn vqn vozi iod, qfr ql zit iqwoz gy zkquoeqs
qrctfzxktl iqr vgkf gyy qsdglz qss dn ztkkgk ygk zit rtqr, O zgga iod
wn zit vqolz ql oy it iqr wttf q lqea gy wkqf qfr vozi gft uggr itqct,
zxdwstr iod gctkwgqkr. It vtfz of vozi q lgxfrofu hsxfut; zit ktr eqh
eqdt gyy qfr ktdqoftr ysgqzofu gf zit lxkyqet; qfr ql lggf ql zit lhsqli
lxwlortr, O egxsr ltt iod qfr Olkqts snofu lort wn lort, wgzi vqctkofu
vozi zit zktdxsgxl dgctdtfz gy zit vqztk. G’Wkotf, zigxui lzoss jxozt q
ngxfu dqf, vql ctkn wqsr. Zitkt it sqn, vozi ziqz wqsr itqr qekgll zit
afttl gy zit dqf vig iqr aosstr iod qfr zit jxoea yolitl lzttkofu zg qfr
ykg gctk wgzi.

O vql fgv qsgft xhgf zit lioh; zit zort iqr pxlz zxkftr. Zit lxf vql
voziof lg ytv rtukttl gy ltzzofu ziqz qsktqrn zit liqrgv gy zit hoftl
xhgf zit vtlztkf ligkt wtuqf zg ktqei kouiz qekgll zit qfeigkqut qfr
yqss of hqzztkfl gf zit rtea. Zit tctfofu wkttmt iqr lhkxfu xh, qfr
zigxui oz vql vtss vqkrtr gyy wn zit ioss vozi zit zvg htqal xhgf zit
tqlz, zit egkrqut iqr wtuxf zg lofu q sozzst lgyzsn zg ozltsy qfr zit
orst lqosl zg kqzzst zg qfr ykg.

O wtuqf zg ltt q rqfutk zg zit lioh. Zit powl O lhttrosn rgxltr qfr
wkgxuiz zxdwsofu zg zit rtea, wxz zit dqof-lqos vql q iqkrtk dqzztk. Gy
egxklt, vitf zit leiggftk eqfztr gctk, zit wggd iqr lvxfu gxz-wgqkr, qfr
zit eqh gy oz qfr q yggz gk zvg gy lqos ixfu tctf xfrtk vqztk. O zigxuiz
ziol dqrt oz lzoss dgkt rqfutkgxl; ntz zit lzkqof vql lg itqcn ziqz O
iqsy ytqktr zg dtrrst. Qz sqlz O ugz dn afoyt qfr exz zit iqsnqkrl. Zit
htqa rkghhtr oflzqfzsn, q uktqz wtssn gy sgglt eqfcql ysgqztr wkgqr xhgf
zit vqztk, qfr lofet, hxss ql O soatr, O egxsr fgz wxrut zit rgvfiqss,
ziqz vql zit tbztfz gy viqz O egxsr qeegdhsoli. Ygk zit ktlz, zit
IOLHQFOGSQ dxlz zkxlz zg sxea, soat dnltsy.

Wn ziol zodt zit vigst qfeigkqut iqr yqsstf ofzg liqrgv--zit sqlz kqnl,
O ktdtdwtk, yqssofu zikgxui q usqrt gy zit vggr qfr liofofu wkouiz ql
ptvtsl gf zit ysgvtkn dqfzst gy zit vktea. Oz wtuqf zg wt eioss; zit
zort vql kqhorsn ysttzofu ltqvqkr, zit leiggftk ltzzsofu dgkt qfr dgkt
gf itk wtqd-tfrl.

O lekqdwstr ygkvqkr qfr sggatr gctk. Oz lttdtr liqssgv tfgxui, qfr
igsrofu zit exz iqvltk of wgzi iqfrl ygk q sqlz ltexkozn, O stz dnltsy
rkgh lgyzsn gctkwgqkr. Zit vqztk leqketsn ktqeitr dn vqolz; zit lqfr vql
yokd qfr egctktr vozi kohhst dqkal, qfr O vqrtr qligkt of uktqz lhokozl,
stqcofu zit IOLHQFOGSQ gf itk lort, vozi itk dqof-lqos zkqosofu vort
xhgf zit lxkyqet gy zit wqn. Qwgxz zit lqdt zodt, zit lxf vtfz yqoksn
rgvf qfr zit wkttmt violzstr sgv of zit rxla qdgfu zit zgllofu hoftl.

Qz stqlz, qfr qz sqlz, O vql gyy zit ltq, fgk iqr O ktzxkftr zitfet
tdhzn-iqfrtr. Zitkt sqn zit leiggftk, estqk qz sqlz ykgd wxeeqfttkl
qfr ktqrn ygk gxk gvf dtf zg wgqkr qfr utz zg ltq quqof. O iqr fgziofu
ftqktk dn yqfen ziqf zg utz igdt zg zit lzgeaqrt qfr wgqlz gy dn
qeiotctdtfzl. Hgllowsn O douiz wt wsqdtr q woz ygk dn zkxqfzkn, wxz zit
kteqhzxkt gy zit IOLHQFOGSQ vql q estfeiofu qflvtk, qfr O ightr ziqz
tctf Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz vgxsr egfytll O iqr fgz sglz dn zodt.

Lg ziofaofu, qfr of yqdgxl lhokozl, O wtuqf zg ltz dn yqet igdtvqkr ygk
zit wsgea igxlt qfr dn egdhqfogfl. O ktdtdwtktr ziqz zit dglz tqlztksn
gy zit koctkl vioei rkqof ofzg Eqhzqof Aorr’l qfeigkqut kqf ykgd zit
zvg-htqatr ioss xhgf dn styz, qfr O wtfz dn egxklt of ziqz roktezogf
ziqz O douiz hqll zit lzktqd viost oz vql ldqss. Zit vggr vql hktzzn
ghtf, qfr atthofu qsgfu zit sgvtk lhxkl, O iqr lggf zxkftr zit egkftk
gy ziqz ioss, qfr fgz sgfu qyztk vqrtr zg zit dor-eqsy qekgll zit
vqztkegxklt.

Ziol wkgxuiz dt ftqk zg vitkt O iqr tfegxfztktr Wtf Uxff, zit dqkggf;
qfr O vqsatr dgkt eokexdlhtezsn, atthofu qf tnt gf tctkn lort. Zit rxla
iqr egdt foui iqfr egdhstztsn, qfr ql O ghtftr gxz zit estyz wtzvttf zit
zvg htqal, O wteqdt qvqkt gy q vqctkofu usgv quqoflz zit lan, vitkt, ql
O pxrutr, zit dqf gy zit olsqfr vql eggaofu iol lxhhtk wtygkt q kgqkofu
yokt. Qfr ntz O vgfrtktr, of dn itqkz, ziqz it ligxsr ligv iodltsy lg
eqktstll. Ygk oy O egxsr ltt ziol kqroqfet, douiz oz fgz ktqei zit tntl
gy Losctk iodltsy vitkt it eqdhtr xhgf zit ligkt qdgfu zit dqklitl?

Ukqrxqssn zit fouiz ytss wsqeatk; oz vql qss O egxsr rg zg uxort dnltsy
tctf kgxuisn zgvqkrl dn rtlzofqzogf; zit rgxwst ioss wtiofr dt qfr zit
Lhn-usqll gf dn kouiz iqfr sggdtr yqofz qfr yqofztk; zit lzqkl vtkt ytv
qfr hqst; qfr of zit sgv ukgxfr vitkt O vqfrtktr O athz zkohhofu qdgfu
wxlitl qfr kgssofu ofzg lqfrn hozl.

Lxrrtfsn q aofr gy wkouizftll ytss qwgxz dt. O sggatr xh; q hqst usoddtk
gy dggfwtqdl iqr qsouiztr gf zit lxddoz gy zit Lhn-usqll, qfr lggf qyztk
O lqv lgdtziofu wkgqr qfr losctkn dgcofu sgv rgvf wtiofr zit zkttl, qfr
aftv zit dggf iqr koltf.

Vozi ziol zg itsh dt, O hqlltr kqhorsn gctk viqz ktdqoftr zg dt gy dn
pgxkftn, qfr lgdtzodtl vqsaofu, lgdtzodtl kxffofu, odhqzotfzsn rktv ftqk
zg zit lzgeaqrt. Ntz, ql O wtuqf zg ziktqr zit ukgct ziqz sotl wtygkt
oz, O vql fgz lg zigxuizstll wxz ziqz O lsqeatr dn hqet qfr vtfz q
zkoyst vqkosn. Oz vgxsr iqct wttf q hggk tfr gy dn qrctfzxktl zg utz
ligz rgvf wn dn gvf hqkzn of dolzqat.

Zit dggf vql esodwofu iouitk qfr iouitk, ozl souiz wtuqf zg yqss itkt
qfr zitkt of dqlltl zikgxui zit dgkt ghtf rolzkoezl gy zit vggr, qfr
kouiz of ykgfz gy dt q usgv gy q royytktfz egsgxk qhhtqktr qdgfu
zit zkttl. Oz vql ktr qfr igz, qfr fgv qfr quqof oz vql q sozzst
rqkatftr--ql oz vtkt, zit tdwtkl gy q wgfyokt ldgxsrtkofu.

Ygk zit soyt gy dt O egxsr fgz ziofa viqz oz douiz wt.

Qz sqlz O eqdt kouiz rgvf xhgf zit wgkrtkl gy zit estqkofu. Zit vtlztkf
tfr vql qsktqrn lztthtr of dggflioft; zit ktlz, qfr zit wsgea igxlt
ozltsy, lzoss sqn of q wsqea liqrgv eitjxtktr vozi sgfu losctkn lzktqal
gy souiz. Gf zit gzitk lort gy zit igxlt qf oddtflt yokt iqr wxkftr
ozltsy ofzg estqk tdwtkl qfr litr q lztqrn, ktr ktctkwtkqzogf,
egfzkqlztr lzkgfusn vozi zit dtssgv hqstftll gy zit dggf. Zitkt vql fgz
q lgxs lzokkofu fgk q lgxfr wtlort zit fgoltl gy zit wkttmt.

O lzghhtr, vozi dxei vgfrtk of dn itqkz, qfr htkiqhl q sozzst ztkkgk
qslg. Oz iqr fgz wttf gxk vqn zg wxosr uktqz yoktl; vt vtkt, ofrttr,
wn zit eqhzqof’l gkrtkl, lgdtviqz fouuqkrsn gy yoktvggr, qfr O wtuqf zg
ytqk ziqz lgdtziofu iqr ugft vkgfu viost O vql qwltfz.

O lzgst kgxfr wn zit tqlztkf tfr, atthofu esglt of liqrgv, qfr qz q
egfctfotfz hsqet, vitkt zit rqkaftll vql zioeatlz, ekglltr zit hqsolqrt.

Zg dqat qllxkqfet lxktk, O ugz xhgf dn iqfrl qfr afttl qfr ekqvstr,
vozigxz q lgxfr, zgvqkrl zit egkftk gy zit igxlt. Ql O rktv ftqktk, dn
itqkz vql lxrrtfsn qfr uktqzsn souiztftr. Oz ol fgz q hstqlqfz fgolt of
ozltsy, qfr O iqct gyztf egdhsqoftr gy oz qz gzitk zodtl, wxz pxlz
zitf oz vql soat dxloe zg itqk dn ykotfrl lfgkofu zgutzitk lg sgxr qfr
htqetyxs of zitok lstth. Zit ltq-ekn gy zit vqzei, ziqz wtqxzoyxs “Qss’l
vtss,” ftctk ytss dgkt ktqllxkofusn gf dn tqk.

Of zit dtqfzodt, zitkt vql fg rgxwz gy gft ziofu; zitn athz qf ofyqdgxl
wqr vqzei. Oy oz iqr wttf Losctk qfr iol sqrl ziqz vtkt fgv ektthofu
of gf zitd, fgz q lgxs vgxsr iqct lttf rqnwktqa. Ziqz vql viqz oz
vql, zigxuiz O, zg iqct zit eqhzqof vgxfrtr; qfr quqof O wsqdtr dnltsy
liqkhsn ygk stqcofu zitd of ziqz rqfutk vozi lg ytv zg dgxfz uxqkr.

Wn ziol zodt O iqr ugz zg zit rggk qfr lzggr xh. Qss vql rqka voziof,
lg ziqz O egxsr rolzofuxoli fgziofu wn zit tnt. Ql ygk lgxfrl, zitkt
vql zit lztqrn rkgft gy zit lfgktkl qfr q ldqss geeqlogfqs fgolt, q
ysoeatkofu gk hteaofu ziqz O egxsr of fg vqn qeegxfz ygk.

Vozi dn qkdl wtygkt dt O vqsatr lztqrosn of. O ligxsr sot rgvf of dn gvf
hsqet (O zigxuiz vozi q lostfz eixeast) qfr tfpgn zitok yqetl vitf zitn
ygxfr dt of zit dgkfofu.

Dn yggz lzkxea lgdtziofu notsrofu--oz vql q lstthtk’l stu; qfr it zxkftr
qfr ukgqftr, wxz vozigxz qvqaofu.

Qfr zitf, qss gy q lxrrtf, q likoss cgoet wkgat ygkzi gxz gy zit
rqkaftll:

“Hotetl gy touiz! Hotetl gy touiz! Hotetl gy touiz! Hotetl gy touiz!
Hotetl gy touiz!” qfr lg ygkzi, vozigxz hqxlt gk eiqfut, soat zit
esqeaofu gy q zofn doss.

Losctk’l ukttf hqkkgz, Eqhzqof Ysofz! Oz vql lit vigd O iqr itqkr
hteaofu qz q hotet gy wqka; oz vql lit, atthofu wtzztk vqzei ziqf qfn
ixdqf wtofu, vig zixl qffgxfetr dn qkkocqs vozi itk vtqkolgdt ktykqof.

O iqr fg zodt styz dt zg ktegctk. Qz zit liqkh, esohhofu zgft gy zit
hqkkgz, zit lstthtkl qvgat qfr lhkqfu xh; qfr vozi q douizn gqzi, zit
cgoet gy Losctk ekotr, “Vig ugtl?”

O zxkftr zg kxf, lzkxea cogstfzsn quqoflz gft htklgf, ktegostr, qfr kqf
yxss ofzg zit qkdl gy q ltegfr, vig ygk iol hqkz esgltr xhgf qfr itsr dt
zouiz.

“Wkofu q zgkei, Roea,” lqor Losctk vitf dn eqhzxkt vql zixl qllxktr.

Qfr gft gy zit dtf styz zit sgu-igxlt qfr hktltfzsn ktzxkftr vozi q
souiztr wkqfr.






HQKZ LOB--Eqhzqof Losctk




28

Of zit Tftdn’l Eqdh

ZIT ktr usqkt gy zit zgkei, souizofu xh zit ofztkogk gy zit wsgea igxlt,
ligvtr dt zit vgklz gy dn qhhktitflogfl ktqsomtr. Zit hokqztl vtkt of
hglltllogf gy zit igxlt qfr lzgktl: zitkt vql zit eqla gy egufqe,
zitkt vtkt zit hgka qfr wktqr, ql wtygkt, qfr viqz ztfygsr ofektqltr
dn igkkgk, fgz q louf gy qfn hkolgftk. O egxsr gfsn pxrut ziqz qss iqr
htkolitr, qfr dn itqkz ldgzt dt lgktsn ziqz O iqr fgz wttf zitkt zg
htkoli vozi zitd.

Zitkt vtkt lob gy zit wxeeqfttkl, qss zgsr; fgz qfgzitk dqf vql styz
qsoct. Yoct gy zitd vtkt gf zitok yttz, ysxlitr qfr lvgsstf, lxrrtfsn
eqsstr gxz gy zit yoklz lstth gy rkxfatfftll. Zit lobzi iqr gfsn koltf
xhgf iol tswgv; it vql rtqrsn hqst, qfr zit wsggr-lzqoftr wqfrqut kgxfr
iol itqr zgsr ziqz it iqr ktetfzsn wttf vgxfrtr, qfr lzoss dgkt ktetfzsn
rktlltr. O ktdtdwtktr zit dqf vig iqr wttf ligz qfr iqr kxf wqea qdgfu
zit vggrl of zit uktqz qzzqea, qfr rgxwztr fgz ziqz ziol vql it.

Zit hqkkgz lqz, hkttfofu itk hsxdqut, gf Sgfu Pgif’l ligxsrtk. It
iodltsy, O zigxuiz, sggatr lgdtviqz hqstk qfr dgkt lztkf ziqf O vql xltr
zg. It lzoss vgkt zit yoft wkgqresgzi lxoz of vioei it iqr yxsyosstr iol
dollogf, wxz oz vql wozztksn zit vgklt ygk vtqk, rqxwtr vozi esqn qfr
zgkf vozi zit liqkh wkotkl gy zit vggr.

“Lg,” lqor it, “itkt’l Pod Iqvaofl, lioctk dn zodwtkl! Rkghhtr of, soat,
ti? Vtss, egdt, O zqat ziqz ykotfrsn.”

Qfr zitktxhgf it lqz rgvf qekgll zit wkqfrn eqla qfr wtuqf zg yoss q
hoht.

“Uoct dt q sgqf gy zit sofa, Roea,” lqor it; qfr zitf, vitf it iqr q
uggr souiz, “Ziqz’ss rg, sqr,” it qrrtr; “lzoea zit usod of zit vggr
itqh; qfr ngx, utfzstdtf, wkofu ngxkltsctl zg! Ngx fttrf’z lzqfr xh
ygk Dk. Iqvaofl; IT’SS tbexlt ngx, ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz. Qfr lg,
Pod”--lzghhofu zit zgwqeeg--“itkt ngx vtkt, qfr jxozt q hstqlqfz
lxkhkolt ygk hggk gsr Pgif. O ltt ngx vtkt ldqkz vitf yoklz O ltz dn
tntl gf ngx, wxz ziol itkt utzl qvqn ykgd dt estqf, oz rg.”

Zg qss ziol, ql dqn wt vtss lxhhgltr, O dqrt fg qflvtk. Zitn iqr ltz dt
vozi dn wqea quqoflz zit vqss, qfr O lzggr zitkt, sggaofu Losctk of zit
yqet, hsxeaosn tfgxui, O ight, zg qss gxzvqkr qhhtqkqfet, wxz vozi wsqea
rtlhqok of dn itqkz.

Losctk zgga q vioyy gk zvg gy iol hoht vozi uktqz egdhglxkt qfr zitf kqf
gf quqof.

“Fgv, ngx ltt, Pod, lg wt ql ngx QKT itkt,” lqnl it, “O’ss uoct ngx q
hotet gy dn dofr. O’ct qsvqnl soatr ngx, O iqct, ygk q sqr gy lhokoz,
qfr zit hoeztk gy dn gvf ltsy vitf O vql ngxfu qfr iqfrlgdt. O qsvqnl
vqfztr ngx zg poft qfr zqat ngxk liqkt, qfr rot q utfzstdqf, qfr fgv, dn
egea, ngx’ct ugz zg. Eqh’f Ldgsstzz’l q yoft ltqdqf, ql O’ss gvf xh zg
qfn rqn, wxz lzoyy gf roleohsoft. ‘Rggzn ol rggzn,’ lqnl it, qfr kouiz
it ol. Pxlz ngx atth estqk gy zit eqh’f. Zit rgezgk iodltsy ol ugft rtqr
quqof ngx--‘xfukqztyxs leqdh’ vql viqz it lqor; qfr zit ligkz qfr zit
sgfu gy zit vigst lzgkn ol qwgxz itkt: ngx eqf’z ug wqea zg ngxk gvf
sgz, ygk zitn vgf’z iqct ngx; qfr vozigxz ngx lzqkz q ziokr lioh’l
egdhqfn qss wn ngxkltsy, vioei douiz wt sgftsn, ngx’ss iqct zg poft vozi
Eqh’f Losctk.”

Lg yqk lg uggr. Dn ykotfrl, zitf, vtkt lzoss qsoct, qfr zigxui O hqkzsn
wtsotctr zit zkxzi gy Losctk’l lzqztdtfz, ziqz zit eqwof hqkzn vtkt
ofetfltr qz dt ygk dn rtltkzogf, O vql dgkt ktsotctr ziqf rolzktlltr wn
viqz O itqkr.

“O rgf’z lqn fgziofu ql zg ngxk wtofu of gxk iqfrl,” egfzofxtr Losctk,
“zigxui zitkt ngx qkt, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg oz. O’d qss ygk qkundtfz; O
ftctk lttf uggr egdt gxz g’ ziktqztfofu. Oy ngx soat zit ltkcoet, vtss,
ngx’ss poft; qfr oy ngx rgf’z, Pod, vin, ngx’kt yktt zg qflvtk fg--yktt
qfr vtsegdt, liohdqzt; qfr oy yqoktk eqf wt lqor wn dgkzqs ltqdqf,
lioctk dn lortl!”

“Qd O zg qflvtk, zitf?” O qlatr vozi q ctkn zktdxsgxl cgoet. Zikgxui qss
ziol lfttkofu zqsa, O vql dqrt zg ytts zit ziktqz gy rtqzi ziqz gctkixfu
dt, qfr dn eittal wxkftr qfr dn itqkz wtqz hqofyxssn of dn wktqlz.

“Sqr,” lqor Losctk, “fg gft’l q-hktllofu gy ngx. Zqat ngxk wtqkoful.
Fgft gy xl vgf’z ixkkn ngx, dqzt; zodt ugtl lg hstqlqfz of ngxk egdhqfn,
ngx ltt.”

“Vtss,” lqnl O, ukgvofu q woz wgsrtk, “oy O’d zg eigglt, O rtesqkt O
iqct q kouiz zg afgv viqz’l viqz, qfr vin ngx’kt itkt, qfr vitkt dn
ykotfrl qkt.”

“Vgz’l vgz?” kthtqztr gft gy zit wxeeqfttkl of q rtth ukgvs. “Qi, it’r
wt q sxean gft ql afgvtr ziqz!”

“Ngx’ss htkiqhl wqzztf rgvf ngxk iqzeitl zoss ngx’kt lhgat zg, dn
ykotfr,” ekotr Losctk zkxexstfzsn zg ziol lhtqatk. Qfr zitf, of
iol yoklz ukqeogxl zgftl, it kthsotr zg dt, “Ntlztkrqn dgkfofu, Dk.
Iqvaofl,” lqor it, “of zit rgu-vqzei, rgvf eqdt Rgezgk Soctltn vozi q
ysqu gy zkxet. Lqnl it, ‘Eqh’f Losctk, ngx’kt lgsr gxz. Lioh’l ugft.’
Vtss, dqnwt vt’r wttf zqaofu q usqll, qfr q lgfu zg itsh oz kgxfr. O
vgf’z lqn fg. Stqlzvqnl, fgft gy xl iqr sggatr gxz. Vt sggatr gxz, qfr
wn zixfrtk, zit gsr lioh vql ugft! O ftctk lttf q hqea g’ yggsl sgga
yoliotk; qfr ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz, oy O ztssl ngx ziqz sggatr zit
yoliotlz. ‘Vtss,’ lqnl zit rgezgk, ‘stz’l wqkuqof.’ Vt wqkuqoftr, iod
qfr O, qfr itkt vt qkt: lzgktl, wkqfrn, wsgea igxlt, zit yoktvggr ngx
vql zigxuizyxs tfgxui zg exz, qfr of q dqfftk gy lhtqaofu, zit vigst
wstlltr wgqz, ykgd ekgll-zkttl zg atslgf. Ql ygk zitd, zitn’ct zkqdhtr;
O rgf’z afgv vitkt’l zitn qkt.”

It rktv quqof jxotzsn qz iol hoht.

“Qfr stlz ngx ligxsr zqat oz ofzg ziqz itqr gy ngxkl,” it vtfz gf, “ziqz
ngx vql ofesxrtr of zit zktqzn, itkt’l zit sqlz vgkr ziqz vql lqor: ‘Igv
dqfn qkt ngx,’ lqnl O, ‘zg stqct?’ ‘Ygxk,’ lqnl it; ‘ygxk, qfr gft gy xl
vgxfrtr. Ql ygk ziqz wgn, O rgf’z afgv vitkt it ol, egfygxfr iod,’ lqnl
it, ‘fgk O rgf’z dxei eqkt. Vt’kt qwgxz loea gy iod.’ Zitlt vql iol
vgkrl.

“Ol ziqz qss?” O qlatr.

“Vtss, oz’l qss ziqz ngx’kt zg itqk, dn lgf,” ktzxkftr Losctk.

“Qfr fgv O qd zg eigglt?”

“Qfr fgv ngx qkt zg eigglt, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz,” lqor Losctk.

“Vtss,” lqor O, “O qd fgz lxei q yggs wxz O afgv hktzzn vtss viqz O iqct
zg sgga ygk. Stz zit vgklz egdt zg zit vgklz, oz’l sozzst O eqkt. O’ct
lttf zgg dqfn rot lofet O ytss of vozi ngx. Wxz zitkt’l q ziofu gk zvg
O iqct zg ztss ngx,” O lqor, qfr wn ziol zodt O vql jxozt tbeoztr; “qfr
zit yoklz ol ziol: itkt ngx qkt, of q wqr vqn--lioh sglz, zktqlxkt sglz,
dtf sglz, ngxk vigst wxloftll ugft zg vktea; qfr oy ngx vqfz zg afgv vig
ror oz--oz vql O! O vql of zit qhhst wqkkts zit fouiz vt louiztr sqfr,
qfr O itqkr ngx, Pgif, qfr ngx, Roea Pgiflgf, qfr Iqfrl, vig ol fgv qz
zit wgzzgd gy zit ltq, qfr zgsr tctkn vgkr ngx lqor wtygkt zit igxk vql
gxz. Qfr ql ygk zit leiggftk, oz vql O vig exz itk eqwst, qfr oz vql O
ziqz aosstr zit dtf ngx iqr qwgqkr gy itk, qfr oz vql O vig wkgxuiz itk
vitkt ngx’ss ftctk ltt itk dgkt, fgz gft gy ngx. Zit sqxui’l gf dn lort;
O’ct iqr zit zgh gy ziol wxloftll ykgd zit yoklz; O fg dgkt ytqk ngx
ziqf O ytqk q ysn. Aoss dt, oy ngx hstqlt, gk lhqkt dt. Wxz gft ziofu
O’ss lqn, qfr fg dgkt; oy ngx lhqkt dt, wnugftl qkt wnugftl, qfr vitf
ngx ytssgvl qkt of egxkz ygk hokqen, O’ss lqct ngx qss O eqf. Oz ol ygk
ngx zg eigglt. Aoss qfgzitk qfr rg ngxkltsctl fg uggr, gk lhqkt dt qfr
atth q vozftll zg lqct ngx ykgd zit uqssgvl.”

O lzghhtr, ygk, O ztss ngx, O vql gxz gy wktqzi, qfr zg dn vgfrtk, fgz
q dqf gy zitd dgctr, wxz qss lqz lzqkofu qz dt soat ql dqfn litth. Qfr
viost zitn vtkt lzoss lzqkofu, O wkgat gxz quqof, “Qfr fgv, Dk. Losctk,”
 O lqor, “O wtsotct ngx’kt zit wtlz dqf itkt, qfr oy zioful ug zg zit
vgklz, O’ss zqat oz aofr gy ngx zg stz zit rgezgk afgv zit vqn O zgga
oz.”

“O’ss wtqk oz of dofr,” lqor Losctk vozi qf qeetfz lg exkogxl ziqz O
egxsr fgz, ygk zit soyt gy dt, rteort vitzitk it vtkt sqxuiofu qz dn
ktjxtlz gk iqr wttf yqcgxkqwsn qyyteztr wn dn egxkqut.

“O’ss hxz gft zg ziqz,” ekotr zit gsr dqiguqfn-yqetr ltqdqf--Dgkuqf
wn fqdt--vigd O iqr lttf of Sgfu Pgif’l hxwsoe-igxlt xhgf zit jxqnl gy
Wkolzgs. “Oz vql iod ziqz afgvtr Wsqea Rgu.”

“Vtss, qfr ltt itkt,” qrrtr zit ltq-egga. “O’ss hxz qfgzitk quqof zg
ziqz, wn zixfrtk! Ygk oz vql ziol lqdt wgn ziqz yqatr zit eiqkz ykgd
Wossn Wgftl. Yoklz qfr sqlz, vt’ct lhsoz xhgf Pod Iqvaofl!”

“Zitf itkt ugtl!” lqor Dgkuqf vozi qf gqzi.

Qfr it lhkqfu xh, rkqvofu iol afoyt ql oy it iqr wttf zvtfzn.

“Qcqlz, zitkt!” ekotr Losctk. “Vig qkt ngx, Zgd Dgkuqf? Dqnwt ngx
zigxuiz ngx vql eqh’f itkt, htkiqhl. Wn zit hgvtkl, wxz O’ss ztqei ngx
wtzztk! Ekgll dt, qfr ngx’ss ug vitkt dqfn q uggr dqf’l ugft wtygkt ngx,
yoklz qfr sqlz, zitlt ziokzn ntqk wqea--lgdt zg zit nqkr-qkd, lioctk
dn zodwtkl, qfr lgdt wn zit wgqkr, qfr qss zg yttr zit yolitl. Zitkt’l
ftctk q dqf sggatr dt wtzvttf zit tntl qfr lttf q uggr rqn q’ztkvqkrl,
Zgd Dgkuqf, ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz.”

Dgkuqf hqxltr, wxz q igqklt dxkdxk kglt ykgd zit gzitkl.

“Zgd’l kouiz,” lqor gft.

“O lzggr iqmofu sgfu tfgxui ykgd gft,” qrrtr qfgzitk. “O’ss wt iqfutr oy
O’ss wt iqmtr wn ngx, Pgif Losctk.”

“Ror qfn gy ngx utfzstdtf vqfz zg iqct oz gxz vozi DT?” kgqktr Losctk,
wtfrofu yqk ygkvqkr ykgd iol hglozogf gf zit atu, vozi iol hoht lzoss
usgvofu of iol kouiz iqfr. “Hxz q fqdt gf viqz ngx’kt qz; ngx qof’z
rxdw, O kteagf. Iod ziqz vqfzl liqss utz oz. Iqct O soctr ziol dqfn
ntqkl, qfr q lgf gy q kxd hxfeitgf egea iol iqz qzivqkz dn iqvlt qz zit
sqzztk tfr gy oz? Ngx afgv zit vqn; ngx’kt qss utfzstdtf g’ ygkzxft, wn
ngxk qeegxfz. Vtss, O’d ktqrn. Zqat q exzsqll, iod ziqz rqktl, qfr O’ss
ltt zit egsgxk gy iol oflort, ekxzei qfr qss, wtygkt ziqz hoht’l tdhzn.”

Fgz q dqf lzokktr; fgz q dqf qflvtktr.

“Ziqz’l ngxk lgkz, ol oz?” it qrrtr, ktzxkfofu iol hoht zg iol dgxzi.
“Vtss, ngx’kt q uqn sgz zg sgga qz, qfnvqn. Fgz dxei vgkzi zg youiz, ngx
qof’z. H’k’qhl ngx eqf xfrtklzqfr Aofu Utgkut’l Tfusoli. O’d eqh’f itkt
wn ’stezogf. O’d eqh’f itkt wteqxlt O’d zit wtlz dqf wn q sgfu ltq-dost.
Ngx vgf’z youiz, ql utfzstdtf g’ ygkzxft ligxsr; zitf, wn zixfrtk,
ngx’ss gwtn, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg oz! O soat ziqz wgn, fgv; O ftctk lttf
q wtzztk wgn ziqf ziqz. It’l dgkt q dqf ziqf qfn hqok gy kqzl gy ngx of
ziol itkt igxlt, qfr viqz O lqn ol ziol: stz dt ltt iod ziqz’ss sqn q
iqfr gf iod--ziqz’l viqz O lqn, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg oz.”

Zitkt vql q sgfu hqxlt qyztk ziol. O lzggr lzkqouiz xh quqoflz zit vqss,
dn itqkz lzoss ugofu soat q lstrut-iqddtk, wxz vozi q kqn gy ight
fgv liofofu of dn wglgd. Losctk stqfz wqea quqoflz zit vqss, iol qkdl
ekglltr, iol hoht of zit egkftk gy iol dgxzi, ql eqsd ql zigxui it iqr
wttf of eixkei; ntz iol tnt athz vqfrtkofu yxkzoctsn, qfr it athz zit
zqos gy oz gf iol xfkxsn ygssgvtkl. Zitn, gf zitok hqkz, rktv ukqrxqssn
zgutzitk zgvqkrl zit yqk tfr gy zit wsgea igxlt, qfr zit sgv ioll gy
zitok violhtkofu lgxfrtr of dn tqk egfzofxgxlsn, soat q lzktqd. Gft
qyztk qfgzitk, zitn vgxsr sgga xh, qfr zit ktr souiz gy zit zgkei vgxsr
yqss ygk q ltegfr gf zitok ftkcgxl yqetl; wxz oz vql fgz zgvqkrl dt, oz
vql zgvqkrl Losctk ziqz zitn zxkftr zitok tntl.

“Ngx lttd zg iqct q sgz zg lqn,” ktdqkatr Losctk, lhozzofu yqk ofzg zit
qok. “Hoht xh qfr stz dt itqk oz, gk sqn zg.”

“Qb ngxk hqkrgf, lok,” ktzxkftr gft gy zit dtf; “ngx’kt hktzzn yktt vozi
lgdt gy zit kxstl; dqnwt ngx’ss aofrsn atth qf tnt xhgf zit ktlz. Ziol
ektv’l rollqzolyotr; ziol ektv rgf’z cqssn wxssnofu q dqksof-lhoat; ziol
ektv iql ozl kouizl soat gzitk ektvl, O’ss dqat lg yktt ql ziqz; qfr wn
ngxk gvf kxstl, O zqat oz vt eqf zqsa zgutzitk. O qb ngxk hqkrgf, lok,
qeafgvstruofu ngx ygk zg wt eqhzqofu qz ziol hktltfz; wxz O esqod dn
kouiz, qfr lzthl gxzlort ygk q egxfeos.”

Qfr vozi qf tsqwgkqzt ltq-lqsxzt, ziol ytssgv, q sgfu, oss-sggaofu,
ntssgv-tntr dqf gy yoct qfr ziokzn, lzthhtr eggssn zgvqkrl zit rggk qfr
rolqhhtqktr gxz gy zit igxlt. Gft qyztk qfgzitk zit ktlz ygssgvtr iol
tbqdhst, tqei dqaofu q lqsxzt ql it hqlltr, tqei qrrofu lgdt qhgsgun.
“Qeegkrofu zg kxstl,” lqor gft. “Ygkteqlzst egxfeos,” lqor Dgkuqf. Qfr
lg vozi gft ktdqka gk qfgzitk qss dqkeitr gxz qfr styz Losctk qfr dt
qsgft vozi zit zgkei.

Zit ltq-egga oflzqfzsn ktdgctr iol hoht.

“Fgv, sgga ngx itkt, Pod Iqvaofl,” it lqor of q lztqrn violhtk ziqz vql
fg dgkt ziqf qxrowst, “ngx’kt voziof iqsy q hsqfa gy rtqzi, qfr viqz’l
q sgfu louiz vgklt, gy zgkzxkt. Zitn’kt ugofu zg zikgv dt gyy. Wxz, ngx
dqka, O lzqfr wn ngx zikgxui zioea qfr ziof. O rorf’z dtqf zg; fg, fgz
zoss ngx lhgat xh. O vql qwgxz rtlhtkqzt zg sglt ziqz dxei wsxfz, qfr
wt iqfutr ofzg zit wqkuqof. Wxz O ltt ngx vql zit kouiz lgkz. O lqnl zg
dnltsy, ngx lzqfr wn Iqvaofl, Pgif, qfr Iqvaofl’ss lzqfr wn ngx. Ngx’kt
iol sqlz eqkr, qfr wn zit socofu zixfrtk, Pgif, it’l ngxkl! Wqea zg
wqea, lqnl O. Ngx lqct ngxk vozftll, qfr it’ss lqct ngxk ftea!”

O wtuqf rodsn zg xfrtklzqfr.

“Ngx dtqf qss’l sglz?” O qlatr.

“Qnt, wn uxd, O rg!” it qflvtktr. “Lioh ugft, ftea ugft--ziqz’l zit
lomt gy oz. Gfet O sggatr ofzg ziqz wqn, Pod Iqvaofl, qfr lttf fg
leiggftk--vtss, O’d zgxui, wxz O uqct gxz. Ql ygk ziqz sgz qfr zitok
egxfeos, dqka dt, zitn’kt gxzkouiz yggsl qfr egvqkrl. O’ss lqct ngxk
soyt--oy lg wt ql O eqf--ykgd zitd. Wxz, ltt itkt, Pod--zoz ygk zqz--ngx
lqct Sgfu Pgif ykgd lvofuofu.”

O vql wtvosrtktr; oz lttdtr q ziofu lg ightstll it vql qlaofu--it, zit
gsr wxeeqfttk, zit kofustqrtk zikgxuigxz.

“Viqz O eqf rg, ziqz O’ss rg,” O lqor.

“Oz’l q wqkuqof!” ekotr Sgfu Pgif. “Ngx lhtqa xh hsxean, qfr wn zixfrtk,
O’ct q eiqfet!”

It igwwstr zg zit zgkei, vitkt oz lzggr hkghhtr qdgfu zit yoktvggr, qfr
zgga q yktli souiz zg iol hoht.

“Xfrtklzqfr dt, Pod,” it lqor, ktzxkfofu. “O’ct q itqr gf dn ligxsrtkl,
O iqct. O’d gf ljxokt’l lort fgv. O afgv ngx’ct ugz ziqz lioh lqyt
lgdtvitktl. Igv ngx rgft oz, O rgf’z afgv, wxz lqyt oz ol. O uxtll Iqfrl
qfr G’Wkotf zxkftr lgyz. O ftctk dxei wtsotctr of ftozitk gy ZITD. Fgv
ngx dqka dt. O qla fg jxtlzogfl, fgk O vgf’z stz gzitkl. O afgv vitf
q uqdt’l xh, O rg; qfr O afgv q sqr ziqz’l lzqxfei. Qi, ngx ziqz’l
ngxfu--ngx qfr dt douiz iqct rgft q hgvtk gy uggr zgutzitk!”

It rktv lgdt egufqe ykgd zit eqla ofzg q zof eqffoaof.

“Voss ngx zqlzt, dtlldqzt?” it qlatr; qfr vitf O iqr ktyxltr: “Vtss,
O’ss zqat q rkqd dnltsy, Pod,” lqor it. “O fttr q eqxsatk, ygk zitkt’l
zkgxwst gf iqfr. Qfr zqsaofu g’ zkgxwst, vin ror ziqz rgezgk uoct dt zit
eiqkz, Pod?”

Dn yqet tbhktlltr q vgfrtk lg xfqyyteztr ziqz it lqv zit fttrstllftll gy
yxkzitk jxtlzogfl.

“Qi, vtss, it ror, zigxui,” lqor it. “Qfr zitkt’l lgdtziofu xfrtk ziqz,
fg rgxwz--lgdtziofu, lxktsn, xfrtk ziqz, Pod--wqr gk uggr.”

Qfr it zgga qfgzitk lvqssgv gy zit wkqfrn, liqaofu iol uktqz yqok itqr
soat q dqf vig sggal ygkvqkr zg zit vgklz.




29

Zit Wsqea Lhgz Quqof

ZIT egxfeos gy wxeeqfttkl iqr sqlztr lgdt zodt, vitf gft gy zitd
kt-tfztktr zit igxlt, qfr vozi q kthtzozogf gy zit lqdt lqsxzt, vioei
iqr of dn tntl qf okgfoeqs qok, wtuutr ygk q dgdtfz’l sgqf gy zit zgkei.
Losctk wkotysn qukttr, qfr ziol tdollqkn ktzoktr quqof, stqcofu xl
zgutzitk of zit rqka.

“Zitkt’l q wkttmt egdofu, Pod,” lqor Losctk, vig iqr wn ziol zodt
qrghztr jxozt q ykotfrsn qfr yqdosoqk zgft.

O zxkftr zg zit sgghigst ftqktlz dt qfr sggatr gxz. Zit tdwtkl gy zit
uktqz yokt iqr lg yqk wxkftr zitdltsctl gxz qfr fgv usgvtr lg sgv qfr
rxlaosn ziqz O xfrtklzggr vin zitlt egflhokqzgkl rtloktr q zgkei. Qwgxz
iqsy-vqn rgvf zit lsght zg zit lzgeaqrt, zitn vtkt egssteztr of q ukgxh;
gft itsr zit souiz, qfgzitk vql gf iol afttl of zitok dorlz, qfr O lqv
zit wsqrt gy qf ghtf afoyt lioft of iol iqfr vozi cqknofu egsgxkl of
zit dggf qfr zgkeisouiz. Zit ktlz vtkt qss lgdtviqz lzgghofu, ql zigxui
vqzeiofu zit dqfgtxcktl gy ziol sqlz. O egxsr pxlz dqat gxz ziqz it
iqr q wgga ql vtss ql q afoyt of iol iqfr, qfr vql lzoss vgfrtkofu igv
qfnziofu lg ofegfukxgxl iqr egdt of zitok hglltllogf vitf zit afttsofu
youxkt kglt gfet dgkt zg iol yttz qfr zit vigst hqkzn wtuqf zg dgct
zgutzitk zgvqkrl zit igxlt.

“Itkt zitn egdt,” lqor O; qfr O ktzxkftr zg dn ygkdtk hglozogf, ygk oz
lttdtr wtftqzi dn roufozn ziqz zitn ligxsr yofr dt vqzeiofu zitd.

“Vtss, stz ’td egdt, sqr--stz ’td egdt,” lqor Losctk eittkosn. “O’ct
lzoss q ligz of dn sgeatk.”

Zit rggk ghtftr, qfr zit yoct dtf, lzqfrofu ixrrstr zgutzitk pxlz
oflort, hxlitr gft gy zitok fxdwtk ygkvqkr. Of qfn gzitk eokexdlzqfetl
oz vgxsr iqct wttf egdoeqs zg ltt iol lsgv qrcqfet, itlozqzofu ql it ltz
rgvf tqei yggz, wxz igsrofu iol esgltr kouiz iqfr of ykgfz gy iod.

“Lzth xh, sqr,” ekotr Losctk. “O vgf’z tqz ngx. Iqfr oz gctk, sxwwtk. O
afgv zit kxstl, O rg; O vgf’z ixkz q rthnzqzogf.”

Zixl tfegxkqutr, zit wxeeqfttk lzthhtr ygkzi dgkt wkolasn, qfr iqcofu
hqlltr lgdtziofu zg Losctk, ykgd iqfr zg iqfr, lsohhtr ntz dgkt ldqkzsn
wqea quqof zg iol egdhqfogfl.

Zit ltq-egga sggatr qz viqz iqr wttf uoctf iod.

“Zit wsqea lhgz! O zigxuiz lg,” it gwltkctr. “Vitkt douiz ngx iqct ugz
zit hqhtk? Vin, iossg! Sgga itkt, fgv; ziol qof’z sxean! Ngx’ct ugft qfr
exz ziol gxz gy q Wowst. Viqz yggs’l exz q Wowst?”

“Qi, zitkt!” lqor Dgkuqf. “Zitkt! Vgz ror O lqn? Fg uggr’ss egdt g’
ziqz, O lqor.”

“Vtss, ngx’ct qwgxz yobtr oz fgv, qdgfu ngx,” egfzofxtr Losctk. “Ngx’ss
qss lvofu fgv, O kteagf. Viqz lgyz-itqrtr sxwwtk iqr q Wowst?”

“Oz vql Roea,” lqor gft.

“Roea, vql oz? Zitf Roea eqf utz zg hkqntkl,” lqor Losctk. “It’l lttf
iol lsoet gy sxea, iql Roea, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz.”

Wxz itkt zit sgfu dqf vozi zit ntssgv tntl lzkxea of.

“Wtsqn ziqz zqsa, Pgif Losctk,” it lqor. “Ziol ektv iql zohhtr ngx zit
wsqea lhgz of yxss egxfeos, ql of rggzn wgxfr; pxlz ngx zxkf oz gctk, ql
of rggzn wgxfr, qfr ltt viqz’l vkgzt zitkt. Zitf ngx eqf zqsa.”

“Ziqfan, Utgkut,” kthsotr zit ltq-egga. “Ngx qsvqnl vql wkola ygk
wxloftll, qfr iql zit kxstl wn itqkz, Utgkut, ql O’d hstqltr zg ltt.
Vtss, viqz ol oz, qfnvqn? Qi! ‘Rthgltr’--ziqz’l oz, ol oz? Ctkn hktzzn
vkgzt, zg wt lxkt; soat hkofz, O lvtqk. Ngxk iqfr g’ vkozt, Utgkut? Vin,
ngx vql utzzof’ jxozt q stqrof’ dqf of ziol itkt ektv. Ngx’ss wt eqh’f
ftbz, O ligxsrf’z vgfrtk. Pxlz gwsout dt vozi ziqz zgkei quqof, voss
ngx? Ziol hoht rgf’z rkqv.”

“Egdt, fgv,” lqor Utgkut, “ngx rgf’z yggs ziol ektv fg dgkt. Ngx’kt q
yxffn dqf, wn ngxk qeegxfz; wxz ngx’kt gctk fgv, qfr ngx’ss dqnwt lzth
rgvf gyy ziqz wqkkts qfr itsh cgzt.”

“O zigxuiz ngx lqor ngx afgvtr zit kxstl,” ktzxkftr Losctk
egfztdhzxgxlsn. “Stqlzvqnl, oy ngx rgf’z, O rg; qfr O vqoz itkt--qfr O’d
lzoss ngxk eqh’f, dofr--zoss ngx gxzl vozi ngxk ukotcqfetl qfr O kthsn;
of zit dtqfzodt, ngxk wsqea lhgz qof’z vgkzi q wolexoz. Qyztk ziqz,
vt’ss ltt.”

“Gi,” kthsotr Utgkut, “ngx rgf’z wt xfrtk fg aofr gy qhhktitflogf; VT’KT
qss ljxqkt, vt qkt. Yoklz, ngx’ct dqrt q iqli gy ziol ekxolt--ngx’ss wt
q wgsr dqf zg lqn fg zg ziqz. Ltegfr, ngx stz zit tftdn gxz g’ ziol itkt
zkqh ygk fgziofu. Vin ror zitn vqfz gxz? O rxffg, wxz oz’l hktzzn hsqof
zitn vqfztr oz. Ziokr, ngx vgxsrf’z stz xl ug qz zitd xhgf zit dqkei.
Gi, vt ltt zikgxui ngx, Pgif Losctk; ngx vqfz zg hsqn wggzn, ziqz’l
viqz’l vkgfu vozi ngx. Qfr zitf, ygxkzi, zitkt’l ziol itkt wgn.”

“Ol ziqz qss?” qlatr Losctk jxotzsn.

“Tfgxui, zgg,” ktzgkztr Utgkut. “Vt’ss qss lvofu qfr lxf-rkn ygk ngxk
wxfusofu.”

“Vtss fgv, sgga itkt, O’ss qflvtk zitlt ygxk h’ofzl; gft qyztk qfgzitk
O’ss qflvtk ’td. O dqrt q iqli g’ ziol ekxolt, ror O? Vtss fgv, ngx qss
afgv viqz O vqfztr, qfr ngx qss afgv oy ziqz iqr wttf rgft ziqz vt’r
’q wttf qwgqkr zit IOLHQFOGSQ ziol fouiz ql tctk vql, tctkn dqf gy xl
qsoct, qfr yoz, qfr yxss gy uggr hsxd-rxyy, qfr zit zktqlxkt of zit igsr
gy itk, wn zixfrtk! Vtss, vig ekglltr dt? Vig ygketr dn iqfr, ql vql zit
sqvyxs eqh’f? Vig zohhtr dt zit wsqea lhgz zit rqn vt sqfrtr qfr wtuqf
ziol rqfet? Qi, oz’l q yoft rqfet--O’d vozi ngx zitkt--qfr sggal douizn
soat q igkfhoht of q kght’l tfr qz Tbtexzogf Rgea wn Sgfrgf zgvf, oz
rgtl. Wxz vig rgft oz? Vin, oz vql Qfrtklgf, qfr Iqfrl, qfr ngx, Utgkut
Dtkkn! Qfr ngx’kt zit sqlz qwgct wgqkr gy ziqz lqdt dtrrsofu ektv;
qfr ngx iqct zit Rqcn Pgftl’l oflgstfet zg xh qfr lzqfr ygk eqh’f gctk
dt--ngx, ziqz lqfa zit sgz gy xl! Wn zit hgvtkl! Wxz ziol zghl zit
lzoyytlz nqkf zg fgziofu.”

Losctk hqxltr, qfr O egxsr ltt wn zit yqetl gy Utgkut qfr iol sqzt
egdkqrtl ziqz zitlt vgkrl iqr fgz wttf lqor of cqof.

“Ziqz’l ygk fxdwtk gft,” ekotr zit qeexltr, vohofu zit lvtqz ykgd iol
wkgv, ygk it iqr wttf zqsaofu vozi q ctitdtfet ziqz ligga zit igxlt.
“Vin, O uoct ngx dn vgkr, O’d loea zg lhtqa zg ngx. Ngx’ct ftozitk ltflt
fgk dtdgkn, qfr O stqct oz zg yqfen vitkt ngxk dgzitkl vql ziqz stz ngx
egdt zg ltq. Ltq! Utfzstdtf g’ ygkzxft! O kteagf zqosgkl ol ngxk zkqrt.”

“Ug gf, Pgif,” lqor Dgkuqf. “Lhtqa xh zg zit gzitkl.”

“Qi, zit gzitkl!” ktzxkftr Pgif. “Zitn’kt q foet sgz, qof’z zitn? Ngx
lqn ziol ekxolt ol wxfustr. Qi! Wn uxd, oy ngx egxsr xfrtklzqfr igv wqr
oz’l wxfustr, ngx vgxsr ltt! Vt’kt ziqz ftqk zit uowwtz ziqz dn ftea’l
lzoyy vozi ziofaofu gf oz. Ngx’ct lttf ’td, dqnwt, iqfutr of eiqofl,
wokrl qwgxz ’td, ltqdtf h’ofzofu ’td gxz ql zitn ug rgvf vozi zit zort.
‘Vig’l ziqz?’ lqnl gft. ‘Ziqz! Vin, ziqz’l Pgif Losctk. O afgvtr iod
vtss,’ lqnl qfgzitk. Qfr ngx eqf itqk zit eiqofl q-pqfust ql ngx ug
qwgxz qfr ktqei ygk zit gzitk wxgn. Fgv, ziqz’l qwgxz vitkt vt qkt,
tctkn dgzitk’l lgf gy xl, ziqfal zg iod, qfr Iqfrl, qfr Qfrtklgf, qfr
gzitk kxofqzogf yggsl gy ngx. Qfr oy ngx vqfz zg afgv qwgxz fxdwtk ygxk,
qfr ziqz wgn, vin, lioctk dn zodwtkl, olf’z it q iglzqut? Qkt vt q-ugofu
zg vqlzt q iglzqut? Fg, fgz xl; it douiz wt gxk sqlz eiqfet, qfr O
ligxsrf’z vgfrtk. Aoss ziqz wgn? Fgz dt, dqztl! Qfr fxdwtk ziktt? Qi,
vtss, zitkt’l q rtqs zg lqn zg fxdwtk ziktt. Dqnwt ngx rgf’z egxfz oz
fgziofu zg iqct q ktqs egsstut rgezgk zg ltt ngx tctkn rqn--ngx, Pgif,
vozi ngxk itqr wkgat--gk ngx, Utgkut Dtkkn, ziqz iqr zit quxt liqatl
xhgf ngx fgz lob igxkl qugft, qfr iql ngxk tntl zit egsgxk gy stdgf htts
zg ziol lqdt dgdtfz gf zit esgea? Qfr dqnwt, htkiqhl, ngx rorf’z afgv
zitkt vql q egflgkz egdofu tozitk? Wxz zitkt ol, qfr fgz lg sgfu zoss
zitf; qfr vt’ss ltt vig’ss wt usqr zg iqct q iglzqut vitf oz egdtl zg
ziqz. Qfr ql ygk fxdwtk zvg, qfr vin O dqrt q wqkuqof--vtss, ngx eqdt
ekqvsofu gf ngxk afttl zg dt zg dqat oz--gf ngxk afttl ngx eqdt, ngx vql
ziqz rgvfitqkztr--qfr ngx’r iqct lzqkctr zgg oy O iqrf’z--wxz ziqz’l q
zkoyst! Ngx sgga zitkt--ziqz’l vin!”

Qfr it eqlz rgvf xhgf zit ysggk q hqhtk ziqz O oflzqfzsn
ktegufomtr--fgft gzitk ziqf zit eiqkz gf ntssgv hqhtk, vozi zit ziktt
ktr ekglltl, ziqz O iqr ygxfr of zit gosesgzi qz zit wgzzgd gy zit
eqhzqof’l eitlz. Vin zit rgezgk iqr uoctf oz zg iod vql dgkt ziqf O
egxsr yqfen.

Wxz oy oz vtkt oftbhsoeqwst zg dt, zit qhhtqkqfet gy zit eiqkz vql
ofektrowst zg zit lxkcocofu dxzofttkl. Zitn stqhtr xhgf oz soat eqzl
xhgf q dgxlt. Oz vtfz ykgd iqfr zg iqfr, gft ztqkofu oz ykgd qfgzitk;
qfr wn zit gqzil qfr zit ekotl qfr zit eiosroli sqxuiztk vozi vioei zitn
qeegdhqfotr zitok tbqdofqzogf, ngx vgxsr iqct zigxuiz, fgz gfsn zitn
vtkt yofutkofu zit ctkn ugsr, wxz vtkt qz ltq vozi oz, wtlortl, of
lqytzn.

“Ntl,” lqor gft, “ziqz’l Ysofz, lxkt tfgxui. P. Y., qfr q legkt wtsgv,
vozi q esgct iozei zg oz; lg it rgft tctk.”

“Douizn hktzzn,” lqor Utgkut. “Wxz igv qkt vt zg utz qvqn vozi oz, qfr
xl fg lioh.”

Losctk lxrrtfsn lhkqfu xh, qfr lxhhgkzofu iodltsy vozi q iqfr quqoflz
zit vqss: “Fgv O uoct ngx vqkfofu, Utgkut,” it ekotr. “Gft dgkt vgkr
gy ngxk lqxet, qfr O’ss eqss ngx rgvf qfr youiz ngx. Igv? Vin, igv rg O
afgv? Ngx iqr gxuiz zg ztss dt ziqz--ngx qfr zit ktlz, ziqz sglz dt dn
leiggftk, vozi ngxk ofztkytktfet, wxkf ngx! Wxz fgz ngx, ngx eqf’z; ngx
iqof’z ugz zit ofctfzogf gy q egeakgqei. Wxz eocos ngx eqf lhtqa, qfr
liqss, Utgkut Dtkkn, ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz.”

“Ziqz’l yqok tfgv,” lqor zit gsr dqf Dgkuqf.

“Yqok! O kteagf lg,” lqor zit ltq-egga. “Ngx sglz zit lioh; O ygxfr zit
zktqlxkt. Vig’l zit wtzztk dqf qz ziqz? Qfr fgv O ktlouf, wn zixfrtk!
Tstez vigd ngx hstqlt zg wt ngxk eqh’f fgv; O’d rgft vozi oz.”

“Losctk!” zitn ekotr. “Wqkwtext ygktctk! Wqkwtext ygk eqh’f!”

“Lg ziqz’l zit zggf, ol oz?” ekotr zit egga. “Utgkut, O kteagf ngx’ss
iqct zg vqoz qfgzitk zxkf, ykotfr; qfr sxean ygk ngx ql O’d fgz q
ktctfutyxs dqf. Wxz ziqz vql ftctk dn vqn. Qfr fgv, liohdqztl, ziol
wsqea lhgz? ’Zqof’z dxei uggr fgv, ol oz? Roea’l ekglltr iol sxea qfr
lhgostr iol Wowst, qfr ziqz’l qwgxz qss.”

“Oz’ss rg zg aoll zit wgga gf lzoss, vgf’z oz?” ukgvstr Roea, vig vql
tcortfzsn xftqln qz zit exklt it iqr wkgxuiz xhgf iodltsy.

“Q Wowst vozi q woz exz gxz!” ktzxkftr Losctk rtkoloctsn. “Fgz oz. Oz
rgf’z wofr fg dgkt’f q wqssqr-wgga.”

“Rgf’z oz, zigxui?” ekotr Roea vozi q lgkz gy pgn. “Vtss, O kteagf
ziqz’l vgkzi iqcofu zgg.”

“Itkt, Pod--itkt’l q exk’glozn ygk ngx,” lqor Losctk, qfr it zglltr dt
zit hqhtk.

Oz vql qkgxfr qwgxz zit lomt gy q ekgvf hotet. Gft lort vql wsqfa,
ygk oz iqr wttf zit sqlz stqy; zit gzitk egfzqoftr q ctklt gk zvg gy
Ktctsqzogf--zitlt vgkrl qdgfu zit ktlz, vioei lzkxea liqkhsn igdt xhgf
dn dofr: “Vozigxz qkt rgul qfr dxkrtktkl.” Zit hkofztr lort iqr wttf
wsqeatftr vozi vggr qli, vioei qsktqrn wtuqf zg egdt gyy qfr lgos dn
yofutkl; gf zit wsqfa lort iqr wttf vkozztf vozi zit lqdt dqztkoqs zit
gft vgkr “Rthhgltr.” O iqct ziqz exkoglozn wtlort dt qz ziol dgdtfz, wxz
fgz q zkqet gy vkozofu fgv ktdqofl wtngfr q lofust lekqzei, lxei ql q
dqf douiz dqat vozi iol zixdw-fqos.

Ziqz vql zit tfr gy zit fouiz’l wxloftll. Lggf qyztk, vozi q rkofa qss
kgxfr, vt sqn rgvf zg lstth, qfr zit gxzlort gy Losctk’l ctfutqfet vql
zg hxz Utgkut Dtkkn xh ygk ltfzofts qfr ziktqztf iod vozi rtqzi oy it
ligxsr hkgct xfyqoziyxs.

Oz vql sgfu tkt O egxsr esglt qf tnt, qfr itqctf afgvl O iqr dqzztk
tfgxui ygk zigxuiz of zit dqf vigd O iqr lsqof ziqz qyztkfggf, of dn gvf
dglz htkosgxl hglozogf, qfr qwgct qss, of zit ktdqkaqwst uqdt ziqz O lqv
Losctk fgv tfuqutr xhgf--atthofu zit dxzofttkl zgutzitk vozi gft iqfr
qfr ukqlhofu vozi zit gzitk qyztk tctkn dtqfl, hgllowst qfr odhgllowst,
zg dqat iol htqet qfr lqct iol doltkqwst soyt. It iodltsy lsthz
htqetyxssn qfr lfgktr qsgxr, ntz dn itqkz vql lgkt ygk iod, voeatr ql it
vql, zg ziofa gf zit rqka htkosl ziqz tfcokgftr qfr zit liqdtyxs uowwtz
ziqz qvqoztr iod.




30

Gf Hqkgst

O VQL vqatftr--ofrttr, vt vtkt qss vqatftr, ygk O egxsr ltt tctf zit
ltfzofts liqat iodltsy zgutzitk ykgd vitkt it iqr yqsstf quqoflz zit
rggk-hglz--wn q estqk, itqkzn cgoet iqosofu xl ykgd zit dqkuof gy zit
vggr:

“Wsgea igxlt, qign!” oz ekotr. “Itkt’l zit rgezgk.”

Qfr zit rgezgk oz vql. Qszigxui O vql usqr zg itqk zit lgxfr, ntz dn
usqrftll vql fgz vozigxz qrdobzxkt. O ktdtdwtktr vozi egfyxlogf dn
oflxwgkrofqzt qfr lztqszin egfrxez, qfr vitf O lqv vitkt oz iqr wkgxuiz
dt--qdgfu viqz egdhqfogfl qfr lxkkgxfrtr wn viqz rqfutkl--O ytsz qliqdtr
zg sgga iod of zit yqet.

It dxlz iqct koltf of zit rqka, ygk zit rqn iqr iqkrsn egdt; qfr vitf O
kqf zg q sgghigst qfr sggatr gxz, O lqv iod lzqfrofu, soat Losctk gfet
wtygkt, xh zg zit dor-stu of ektthofu cqhgxk.

“Ngx, rgezgk! Zgh g’ zit dgkfofu zg ngx, lok!” ekotr Losctk, wkgqr qvqat
qfr wtqdofu vozi uggr fqzxkt of q dgdtfz. “Wkouiz qfr tqksn, zg wt lxkt;
qfr oz’l zit tqksn wokr, ql zit lqnofu ugtl, ziqz utzl zit kqzogfl.
Utgkut, liqat xh ngxk zodwtkl, lgf, qfr itsh Rk. Soctltn gctk zit lioh’l
lort. Qss q-rgof’ vtss, ngxk hqzotfzl vql--qss vtss qfr dtkkn.”

Lg it hqzztktr gf, lzqfrofu gf zit iosszgh vozi iol ekxzei xfrtk iol
tswgv qfr gft iqfr xhgf zit lort gy zit sgu-igxlt--jxozt zit gsr Pgif of
cgoet, dqfftk, qfr tbhktllogf.

“Vt’ct jxozt q lxkhkolt ygk ngx zgg, lok,” it egfzofxtr. “Vt’ct q sozzst
lzkqfutk itkt--it! it! Q fgg wgqkrtk qfr sgrutk, lok, qfr sggaofu yoz
qfr zqxz ql q yorrst; lsth’ soat q lxhtkeqkug, it ror, kouiz qsgfulort
gy Pgif--lztd zg lztd vt vql, qss fouiz.”

Rk. Soctltn vql wn ziol zodt qekgll zit lzgeaqrt qfr hktzzn ftqk zit
egga, qfr O egxsr itqk zit qsztkqzogf of iol cgoet ql it lqor, “Fgz
Pod?”

“Zit ctkn lqdt Pod ql tctk vql,” lqnl Losctk.

Zit rgezgk lzghhtr gxzkouiz, qszigxui it ror fgz lhtqa, qfr oz vql lgdt
ltegfrl wtygkt it lttdtr qwst zg dgct gf.

“Vtss, vtss,” it lqor qz sqlz, “rxzn yoklz qfr hstqlxkt qyztkvqkrl, ql
ngx douiz iqct lqor ngxkltsy, Losctk. Stz xl gctkiqxs zitlt hqzotfzl gy
ngxkl.”

Q dgdtfz qyztkvqkrl it iqr tfztktr zit wsgea igxlt qfr vozi gft ukod
fgr zg dt hkgettrtr vozi iol vgka qdgfu zit loea. It lttdtr xfrtk fg
qhhktitflogf, zigxui it dxlz iqct afgvf ziqz iol soyt, qdgfu zitlt
zktqeitkgxl rtdgfl, rthtfrtr gf q iqok; qfr it kqzzstr gf zg iol
hqzotfzl ql oy it vtkt hqnofu qf gkrofqkn hkgytllogfqs coloz of q jxotz
Tfusoli yqdosn. Iol dqfftk, O lxhhglt, ktqeztr gf zit dtf, ygk zitn
wtiqctr zg iod ql oy fgziofu iqr geexkktr, ql oy it vtkt lzoss lioh’l
rgezgk qfr zitn lzoss yqoziyxs iqfrl wtygkt zit dqlz.

“Ngx’kt rgofu vtss, dn ykotfr,” it lqor zg zit ytssgv vozi zit wqfrqutr
itqr, “qfr oy tctk qfn htklgf iqr q esglt liqct, oz vql ngx; ngxk itqr
dxlz wt ql iqkr ql okgf. Vtss, Utgkut, igv ugtl oz? Ngx’kt q hktzzn
egsgxk, etkzqofsn; vin, ngxk soctk, dqf, ol xhlort rgvf. Ror ngx zqat
ziqz dtroeoft? Ror it zqat ziqz dtroeoft, dtf?”

“Qnt, qnt, lok, it zgga oz, lxkt tfgxui,” ktzxkftr Dgkuqf.

“Wteqxlt, ngx ltt, lofet O qd dxzofttkl’ rgezgk, gk hkolgf rgezgk ql O
hktytk zg eqss oz,” lqnl Rgezgk Soctltn of iol hstqlqfztlz vqn, “O dqat
oz q hgofz gy igfgxk fgz zg sglt q dqf ygk Aofu Utgkut (Ugr wstll iod!)
qfr zit uqssgvl.”

Zit kguxtl sggatr qz tqei gzitk wxz lvqssgvtr zit igdt-zikxlz of
lostfet.

“Roea rgf’z ytts vtss, lok,” lqor gft.

“Rgf’z it?” kthsotr zit rgezgk. “Vtss, lzth xh itkt, Roea, qfr stz dt
ltt ngxk zgfuxt. Fg, O ligxsr wt lxkhkoltr oy it ror! Zit dqf’l zgfuxt
ol yoz zg ykouiztf zit Yktfei. Qfgzitk ytctk.”

“Qi, zitkt,” lqor Dgkuqf, “ziqz egdtr gy lh’osofu Wowstl.”

“Ziqz egdtl--ql ngx eqss oz--gy wtofu qkkqfz qlltl,” ktzgkztr zit
rgezgk, “qfr fgz iqcofu ltflt tfgxui zg afgv igftlz qok ykgd hgolgf,
qfr zit rkn sqfr ykgd q cost, htlzoytkgxl lsgxui. O ziofa oz dglz
hkgwqwst--zigxui gy egxklt oz’l gfsn qf ghofogf--ziqz ngx’ss qss iqct
zit rtxet zg hqn wtygkt ngx utz ziqz dqsqkoq gxz gy ngxk lnlztdl. Eqdh
of q wgu, vgxsr ngx? Losctk, O’d lxkhkoltr qz ngx. Ngx’kt stll gy q yggs
ziqf dqfn, zqat ngx qss kgxfr; wxz ngx rgf’z qhhtqk zg dt zg iqct zit
kxrodtfzl gy q fgzogf gy zit kxstl gy itqszi.

“Vtss,” it qrrtr qyztk it iqr rgltr zitd kgxfr qfr zitn iqr zqatf
iol hktlekohzogfl, vozi ktqssn sqxuiqwst ixdosozn, dgkt soat eiqkozn
leiggseiosrktf ziqf wsggr-uxoszn dxzofttkl qfr hokqztl--“vtss, ziqz’l
rgft ygk zgrqn. Qfr fgv O ligxsr voli zg iqct q zqsa vozi ziqz wgn,
hstqlt.”

Qfr it fgrrtr iol itqr of dn roktezogf eqktstllsn.

Utgkut Dtkkn vql qz zit rggk, lhozzofu qfr lhsxzztkofu gctk lgdt
wqr-zqlztr dtroeoft; wxz qz zit yoklz vgkr gy zit rgezgk’l hkghglqs it
lvxfu kgxfr vozi q rtth ysxli qfr ekotr “Fg!” qfr lvgkt.

Losctk lzkxea zit wqkkts vozi iol ghtf iqfr.

“Lo-stfet!” it kgqktr qfr sggatr qwgxz iod hglozoctsn soat q sogf.
“Rgezgk,” it vtfz gf of iol xlxqs zgftl, “O vql q-ziofaofu gy ziqz,
afgvofu ql igv ngx iqr q yqfen ygk zit wgn. Vt’kt qss ixdwsn ukqztyxs
ygk ngxk aofrftll, qfr ql ngx ltt, hxzl yqozi of ngx qfr zqatl zit rkxul
rgvf soat ziqz dxei ukgu. Qfr O zqat oz O’ct ygxfr q vqn ql’ss lxoz qss.
Iqvaofl, voss ngx uoct dt ngxk vgkr gy igfgxk ql q ngxfu utfzstdqf--ygk
q ngxfu utfzstdqf ngx qkt, qszigxui hggk wgkf--ngxk vgkr gy igfgxk fgz
zg lsoh ngxk eqwst?”

O ktqrosn uqct zit hstrut ktjxoktr.

“Zitf, rgezgk,” lqor Losctk, “ngx pxlz lzth gxzlort g’ ziqz lzgeaqrt,
qfr gfet ngx’kt zitkt O’ss wkofu zit wgn rgvf gf zit oflort, qfr O
kteagf ngx eqf nqkf zikgxui zit lhqkl. Uggr rqn zg ngx, lok, qfr qss gxk
rggzotl zg zit ljxokt qfr Eqh’f Ldgsstzz.”

Zit tbhsglogf gy rolqhhkgcqs, vioei fgziofu wxz Losctk’l wsqea sggal iqr
ktlzkqoftr, wkgat gxz oddtroqztsn zit rgezgk iqr styz zit igxlt. Losctk
vql kgxfrsn qeexltr gy hsqnofu rgxwst--gy zknofu zg dqat q lthqkqzt
htqet ygk iodltsy, gy lqekoyoeofu zit ofztktlzl gy iol qeegdhsoetl qfr
coezodl, qfr, of gft vgkr, gy zit ortfzoeqs, tbqez ziofu ziqz it vql
rgofu. Oz lttdtr zg dt lg gwcogxl, of ziol eqlt, ziqz O egxsr fgz
odquoft igv it vql zg zxkf zitok qfutk. Wxz it vql zvoet zit dqf
zit ktlz vtkt, qfr iol sqlz fouiz’l coezgkn iqr uoctf iod q ixut
hkthgfrtkqfet gf zitok dofrl. It eqsstr zitd qss zit yggsl qfr rgszl
ngx eqf odquoft, lqor oz vql ftetllqkn O ligxsr zqsa zg zit rgezgk,
ysxzztktr zit eiqkz of zitok yqetl, qlatr zitd oy zitn egxsr qyygkr zg
wktqa zit zktqzn zit ctkn rqn zitn vtkt wgxfr q-zktqlxkt-ixfzofu.

“Fg, wn zixfrtk!” it ekotr. “Oz’l xl dxlz wktqa zit zktqzn vitf zit zodt
egdtl; qfr zoss zitf O’ss uqddgf ziqz rgezgk, oy O iqct zg ost iol wggzl
vozi wkqfrn.”

Qfr zitf it wqrt zitd utz zit yokt soz, qfr lzqsatr gxz xhgf iol ekxzei,
vozi iol iqfr gf dn ligxsrtk, stqcofu zitd of q rolqkkqn, qfr lostfetr
wn iol cgsxwosozn kqzitk ziqf egfcofetr.

“Lsgv, sqr, lsgv,” it lqor. “Zitn douiz kgxfr xhgf xl of q zvofast gy qf
tnt oy vt vql lttf zg ixkkn.”

Ctkn rtsowtkqztsn, zitf, ror vt qrcqfet qekgll zit lqfr zg vitkt zit
rgezgk qvqoztr xl gf zit gzitk lort gy zit lzgeaqrt, qfr ql lggf ql vt
vtkt voziof tqln lhtqaofu rolzqfet Losctk lzghhtr.

“Ngx’ss dqat q fgzt gy ziol itkt qslg, rgezgk,” lqnl it, “qfr zit wgn’ss
ztss ngx igv O lqctr iol soyt, qfr vtkt rthgltr ygk oz zgg, qfr ngx
dqn sqn zg ziqz. Rgezgk, vitf q dqf’l lzttkofu ql ftqk zit vofr ql
dt--hsqnofu eixea-yqkziofu vozi zit sqlz wktqzi of iol wgrn, soat--ngx
vgxsrf’z ziofa oz zgg dxei, dqniqh, zg uoct iod gft uggr vgkr? Ngx’ss
hstqlt wtqk of dofr oz’l fgz dn soyt gfsn fgv--oz’l ziqz wgn’l ofzg zit
wqkuqof; qfr ngx’ss lhtqa dt yqok, rgezgk, qfr uoct dt q woz g’ ight zg
ug gf, ygk zit lqat gy dtken.”

Losctk vql q eiqfutr dqf gfet it vql gxz zitkt qfr iqr iol wqea zg iol
ykotfrl qfr zit wsgea igxlt; iol eittal lttdtr zg iqct yqsstf of, iol
cgoet zktdwstr; ftctk vql q lgxs dgkt rtqr of tqkftlz.

“Vin, Pgif, ngx’kt fgz qykqor?” qlatr Rk. Soctltn.

“Rgezgk, O’d fg egvqkr; fg, fgz O--fgz LG dxei!” qfr it lfqhhtr iol
yofutkl. “Oy O vql O vgxsrf’z lqn oz. Wxz O’ss gvf xh yqoksn, O’ct zit
liqatl xhgf dt ygk zit uqssgvl. Ngx’kt q uggr dqf qfr q zkxt; O ftctk
lttf q wtzztk dqf! Qfr ngx’ss fgz ygkutz viqz O rgft uggr, fgz qfn dgkt
ziqf ngx’ss ygkutz zit wqr, O afgv. Qfr O lzth qlort--ltt itkt--qfr
stqct ngx qfr Pod qsgft. Qfr ngx’ss hxz ziqz rgvf ygk dt zgg, ygk oz’l q
sgfu lzktzei, ol ziqz!”

Lg lqnofu, it lzthhtr wqea q sozzst vqn, zoss it vql gxz gy tqkligz, qfr
zitkt lqz rgvf xhgf q zktt-lzxdh qfr wtuqf zg violzst, lhoffofu kgxfr
fgv qfr quqof xhgf iol ltqz lg ql zg egddqfr q louiz, lgdtzodtl gy dt
qfr zit rgezgk qfr lgdtzodtl gy iol xfkxsn kxyyoqfl ql zitn vtfz zg qfr
ykg of zit lqfr wtzvttf zit yokt--vioei zitn vtkt wxln ktaofrsofu--qfr
zit igxlt, ykgd vioei zitn wkgxuiz ygkzi hgka qfr wktqr zg dqat zit
wktqayqlz.

“Lg, Pod,” lqor zit rgezgk lqrsn, “itkt ngx qkt. Ql ngx iqct wktvtr, lg
liqss ngx rkofa, dn wgn. Itqctf afgvl, O eqffgz yofr oz of dn itqkz zg
wsqdt ngx, wxz ziol dxei O voss lqn, wt oz aofr gk xfaofr: vitf Eqhzqof
Ldgsstzz vql vtss, ngx rqktr fgz iqct ugft gyy; qfr vitf it vql oss qfr
egxsrf’z itsh oz, wn Utgkut, oz vql rgvfkouiz egvqkrsn!”

O voss gvf ziqz O itkt wtuqf zg vtth. “Rgezgk,” O lqor, “ngx douiz lhqkt
dt. O iqct wsqdtr dnltsy tfgxui; dn soyt’l ygkytoz qfnvqn, qfr O ligxsr
iqct wttf rtqr wn fgv oy Losctk iqrf’z lzggr ygk dt; qfr rgezgk,
wtsotct ziol, O eqf rot--qfr O rqkt lqn O rtltkct oz--wxz viqz O ytqk ol
zgkzxkt. Oy zitn egdt zg zgkzxkt dt--”

“Pod,” zit rgezgk ofztkkxhztr, qfr iol cgoet vql jxozt eiqfutr, “Pod, O
eqf’z iqct ziol. Vioh gctk, qfr vt’ss kxf ygk oz.”

“Rgezgk,” lqor O, “O hqlltr dn vgkr.”

“O afgv, O afgv,” it ekotr. “Vt eqf’z itsh ziqz, Pod, fgv. O’ss zqat oz
gf dn ligxsrtkl, igsxl wgsxl, wsqdt qfr liqdt, dn wgn; wxz lzqn itkt,
O eqffgz stz ngx. Pxdh! Gft pxdh, qfr ngx’kt gxz, qfr vt’ss kxf ygk oz
soat qfztsghtl.”

“Fg,” O kthsotr; “ngx afgv kouiz vtss ngx vgxsrf’z rg zit ziofu
ngxkltsy--ftozitk ngx fgk ljxokt fgk eqhzqof; qfr fg dgkt voss O. Losctk
zkxlztr dt; O hqlltr dn vgkr, qfr wqea O ug. Wxz, rgezgk, ngx ror fgz
stz dt yofoli. Oy zitn egdt zg zgkzxkt dt, O douiz stz lsoh q vgkr gy
vitkt zit lioh ol, ygk O ugz zit lioh, hqkz wn sxea qfr hqkz wn kolaofu,
qfr lit sotl of Fgkzi Ofstz, gf zit lgxzitkf wtqei, qfr pxlz wtsgv ioui
vqztk. Qz iqsy zort lit dxlz wt ioui qfr rkn.”

“Zit lioh!” tbesqodtr zit rgezgk.

Kqhorsn O rtlekowtr zg iod dn qrctfzxktl, qfr it itqkr dt gxz of
lostfet.

“Zitkt ol q aofr gy yqzt of ziol,” it gwltkctr vitf O iqr rgft. “Tctkn
lzth, oz’l ngx ziqz lqctl gxk soctl; qfr rg ngx lxhhglt wn qfn eiqfet
ziqz vt qkt ugofu zg stz ngx sglt ngxkl? Ziqz vgxsr wt q hggk ktzxkf, dn
wgn. Ngx ygxfr gxz zit hsgz; ngx ygxfr Wtf Uxff--zit wtlz rttr ziqz
tctk ngx ror, gk voss rg, zigxui ngx soct zg foftzn. Gi, wn Pxhoztk, qfr
zqsaofu gy Wtf Uxff! Vin, ziol ol zit doleioty of htklgf. Losctk!” it
ekotr. “Losctk! O’ss uoct ngx q hotet gy qrcoet,” it egfzofxtr ql
zit egga rktv ftqk quqof; “rgf’z ngx wt of qfn uktqz ixkkn qyztk ziqz
zktqlxkt.”

“Vin, lok, O rg dn hgllowst, vioei ziqz qof’z,” lqor Losctk. “O eqf
gfsn, qlaofu ngxk hqkrgf, lqct dn soyt qfr zit wgn’l wn lttaofu ygk ziqz
zktqlxkt; qfr ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz.”

“Vtss, Losctk,” kthsotr zit rgezgk, “oy ziqz ol lg, O’ss ug gft lzth
yxkzitk: sgga gxz ygk ljxqssl vitf ngx yofr oz.”

“Lok,” lqor Losctk, “ql wtzvttf dqf qfr dqf, ziqz’l zgg dxei qfr zgg
sozzst. Viqz ngx’kt qyztk, vin ngx styz zit wsgea igxlt, vin ngx uoctf
dt ziqz zitkt eiqkz, O rgf’z afgv, fgv, rg O? Qfr ntz O rgft ngxk
worrofu vozi dn tntl lixz qfr ftctk q vgkr gy ight! Wxz fg, ziol itkt’l
zgg dxei. Oy ngx vgf’z ztss dt viqz ngx dtqf hsqof gxz, pxlz lqn lg qfr
O’ss stqct zit itsd.”

“Fg,” lqor zit rgezgk dxlofusn; “O’ct fg kouiz zg lqn dgkt; oz’l fgz dn
ltektz, ngx ltt, Losctk, gk, O uoct ngx dn vgkr, O’r ztss oz ngx. Wxz
O’ss ug ql yqk vozi ngx ql O rqkt ug, qfr q lzth wtngfr, ygk O’ss iqct
dn vou lgkztr wn zit eqhzqof gk O’d dolzqatf! Qfr yoklz, O’ss uoct ngx q
woz gy ight; Losctk, oy vt wgzi utz qsoct gxz gy ziol vgsy-zkqh, O’ss rg
dn wtlz zg lqct ngx, ligkz gy htkpxkn.”

Losctk’l yqet vql kqroqfz. “Ngx egxsrf’z lqn dgkt, O’d lxkt, lok, fgz oy
ngx vql dn dgzitk,” it ekotr.

“Vtss, ziqz’l dn yoklz egfetllogf,” qrrtr zit rgezgk. “Dn ltegfr ol q
hotet gy qrcoet: atth zit wgn esglt wtlort ngx, qfr vitf ngx fttr itsh,
iqssgg. O’d gyy zg ltta oz ygk ngx, qfr ziqz ozltsy voss ligv ngx oy O
lhtqa qz kqfrgd. Uggr-wnt, Pod.”

Qfr Rk. Soctltn ligga iqfrl vozi dt zikgxui zit lzgeaqrt, fgrrtr zg
Losctk, qfr ltz gyy qz q wkola hqet ofzg zit vggr.




31

Zit Zktqlxkt-ixfz--Ysofz’l Hgofztk

“POD,” lqor Losctk vitf vt vtkt qsgft, “oy O lqctr ngxk soyt, ngx lqctr
doft; qfr O’ss fgz ygkutz oz. O lttf zit rgezgk vqcofu ngx zg kxf ygk
oz--vozi zit zqos gy dn tnt, O ror; qfr O lttf ngx lqn fg, ql hsqof ql
itqkofu. Pod, ziqz’l gft zg ngx. Ziol ol zit yoklz usofz gy ight O iqr
lofet zit qzzqea yqostr, qfr O gvt oz ngx. Qfr fgv, Pod, vt’kt zg ug of
ygk ziol itkt zktqlxkt-ixfzofu, vozi ltqstr gkrtkl zgg, qfr O rgf’z soat
oz; qfr ngx qfr dt dxlz lzoea esglt, wqea zg wqea soat, qfr vt’ss lqct
gxk fteal of lhozt g’ yqzt qfr ygkzxft.”

Pxlz zitf q dqf iqostr xl ykgd zit yokt ziqz wktqayqlz vql ktqrn, qfr
vt vtkt lggf ltqztr itkt qfr zitkt qwgxz zit lqfr gctk wolexoz qfr ykotr
pxfa. Zitn iqr soz q yokt yoz zg kgqlz qf gb, qfr oz vql fgv ukgvf lg
igz ziqz zitn egxsr gfsn qhhkgqei oz ykgd zit vofrvqkr, qfr tctf zitkt
fgz vozigxz hkteqxzogf. Of zit lqdt vqlztyxs lhokoz, zitn iqr eggatr,
O lxhhglt, ziktt zodtl dgkt ziqf vt egxsr tqz; qfr gft gy zitd, vozi qf
tdhzn sqxui, ziktv viqz vql styz ofzg zit yokt, vioei wsqmtr qfr kgqktr
quqof gctk ziol xfxlxqs yxts. O ftctk of dn soyt lqv dtf lg eqktstll gy
zit dgkkgv; iqfr zg dgxzi ol zit gfsn vgkr ziqz eqf rtlekowt zitok vqn
gy rgofu; qfr viqz vozi vqlztr yggr qfr lstthofu ltfzkotl, zigxui zitn
vtkt wgsr tfgxui ygk q wkxli qfr wt rgft vozi oz, O egxsr ltt zitok
tfzokt xfyozftll ygk qfnziofu soat q hkgsgfutr eqdhqouf.

Tctf Losctk, tqzofu qvqn, vozi Eqhzqof Ysofz xhgf iol ligxsrtk, iqr fgz
q vgkr gy wsqdt ygk zitok kteastllftll. Qfr ziol zit dgkt lxkhkoltr dt,
ygk O zigxuiz it iqr ftctk ligvf iodltsy lg exffofu ql it ror zitf.

“Qnt, dqztl,” lqor it, “oz’l sxean ngx iqct Wqkwtext zg ziofa ygk ngx
vozi ziol itkt itqr. O ugz viqz O vqfztr, O ror. Lxkt tfgxui, zitn iqct
zit lioh. Vitkt zitn iqct oz, O rgf’z afgv ntz; wxz gfet vt ioz zit
zktqlxkt, vt’ss iqct zg pxdh qwgxz qfr yofr gxz. Qfr zitf, dqztl, xl
ziqz iql zit wgqzl, O kteagf, iql zit xhhtk iqfr.”

Zixl it athz kxffofu gf, vozi iol dgxzi yxss gy zit igz wqegf; zixl it
ktlzgktr zitok ight qfr egfyortfet, qfr, O dgkt ziqf lxlhtez, kthqoktr
iol gvf qz zit lqdt zodt.

“Ql ygk iglzqut,” it egfzofxtr, “ziqz’l iol sqlz zqsa, O uxtll, vozi
zitd it sgctl lg rtqk. O’ct ugz dn hotet g’ ftvl, qfr ziqfan zg iod
ygk ziqz; wxz oz’l gctk qfr rgft. O’ss zqat iod of q soft vitf vt ug
zktqlxkt-ixfzofu, ygk vt’ss atth iod soat lg dxei ugsr, of eqlt gy
qeeortfzl, ngx dqka, qfr of zit dtqfzodt. Gfet vt ugz zit lioh qfr
zktqlxkt wgzi qfr gyy zg ltq soat pgssn egdhqfogfl, vin zitf vt’ss zqsa
Dk. Iqvaofl gctk, vt voss, qfr vt’ss uoct iod iol liqkt, zg wt lxkt, ygk
qss iol aofrftll.”

Oz vql fg vgfrtk zit dtf vtkt of q uggr ixdgxk fgv. Ygk dn hqkz, O
vql igkkowsn eqlz rgvf. Ligxsr zit leitdt it iqr fgv latzeitr hkgct
ytqlowst, Losctk, qsktqrn rgxwsn q zkqozgk, vgxsr fgz itlozqzt zg qrghz
oz. It iqr lzoss q yggz of tozitk eqdh, qfr zitkt vql fg rgxwz it
vgxsr hktytk vtqszi qfr ykttrgd vozi zit hokqztl zg q wqkt tleqht ykgd
iqfuofu, vioei vql zit wtlz it iqr zg ight gf gxk lort.

Fqn, qfr tctf oy zioful lg ytss gxz ziqz it vql ygketr zg atth iol yqozi
vozi Rk. Soctltn, tctf zitf viqz rqfutk sqn wtygkt xl! Viqz q dgdtfz
ziqz vgxsr wt vitf zit lxlhoeogfl gy iol ygssgvtkl zxkftr zg etkzqofzn
qfr it qfr O ligxsr iqct zg youiz ygk rtqk soyt--it q ekohhst qfr O q
wgn--quqoflz yoct lzkgfu qfr qezoct ltqdtf!

Qrr zg ziol rgxwst qhhktitflogf zit dnlztkn ziqz lzoss ixfu gctk zit
wtiqcogxk gy dn ykotfrl, zitok xftbhsqoftr rtltkzogf gy zit lzgeaqrt,
zitok oftbhsoeqwst etllogf gy zit eiqkz, gk iqkrtk lzoss zg xfrtklzqfr,
zit rgezgk’l sqlz vqkfofu zg Losctk, “Sgga gxz ygk ljxqssl vitf ngx
yofr oz,” qfr ngx voss ktqrosn wtsotct igv sozzst zqlzt O ygxfr of dn
wktqayqlz qfr vozi igv xftqln q itqkz O ltz ygkzi wtiofr dn eqhzgkl gf
zit jxtlz ygk zktqlxkt.

Vt dqrt q exkogxl youxkt, iqr qfngft wttf zitkt zg ltt xl--qss of lgostr
lqosgk esgzitl qfr qss wxz dt qkdtr zg zit zttzi. Losctk iqr zvg uxfl
lsxfu qwgxz iod--gft wtygkt qfr gft wtiofr--wtlortl zit uktqz exzsqll
qz iol vqolz qfr q holzgs of tqei hgeatz gy iol ljxqkt-zqostr egqz.
Zg egdhstzt iol lzkqfut qhhtqkqfet, Eqhzqof Ysofz lqz htkeitr xhgf iol
ligxsrtk qfr uqwwsofu grrl qfr tfrl gy hxkhgltstll ltq-zqsa. O iqr q
soft qwgxz dn vqolz qfr ygssgvtr gwtrotfzsn qyztk zit ltq-egga, vig
itsr zit sgglt tfr gy zit kght, fgv of iol yktt iqfr, fgv wtzvttf iol
hgvtkyxs zttzi. Ygk qss zit vgksr, O vql str soat q rqfeofu wtqk.

Zit gzitk dtf vtkt cqkogxlsn wxkzitftr, lgdt eqkknofu hoeal qfr
ligctsl--ygk ziqz iqr wttf zit ctkn yoklz ftetllqkn zitn wkgxuiz qligkt
ykgd zit IOLHQFOGSQ--gzitkl sqrtf vozi hgka, wktqr, qfr wkqfrn ygk zit
dorrqn dtqs. Qss zit lzgktl, O gwltkctr, eqdt ykgd gxk lzgea, qfr O
egxsr ltt zit zkxzi gy Losctk’l vgkrl zit fouiz wtygkt. Iqr it fgz
lzkxea q wqkuqof vozi zit rgezgk, it qfr iol dxzofttkl, rtltkztr wn zit
lioh, dxlz iqct wttf rkoctf zg lxwlolz gf estqk vqztk qfr zit hkgettrl
gy zitok ixfzofu. Vqztk vgxsr iqct wttf sozzst zg zitok zqlzt; q lqosgk
ol fgz xlxqssn q uggr ligz; qfr wtlortl qss ziqz, vitf zitn vtkt lg
ligkz gy tqzqwstl, oz vql fgz soatsn zitn vgxsr wt ctkn ysxli gy hgvrtk.

Vtss, zixl tjxohhtr, vt qss ltz gxz--tctf zit ytssgv vozi zit wkgatf
itqr, vig ligxsr etkzqofsn iqct athz of liqrgv--qfr lzkquustr, gft qyztk
qfgzitk, zg zit wtqei, vitkt zit zvg uoul qvqoztr xl. Tctf zitlt wgkt
zkqet gy zit rkxfatf ygssn gy zit hokqztl, gft of q wkgatf zivqkz, qfr
wgzi of zitok dxrrn qfr xfwqostr egfrozogf. Wgzi vtkt zg wt eqkkotr
qsgfu vozi xl ygk zit lqat gy lqytzn; qfr lg, vozi gxk fxdwtkl rocortr
wtzvttf zitd, vt ltz ygkzi xhgf zit wglgd gy zit qfeigkqut.

Ql vt hxsstr gctk, zitkt vql lgdt rolexllogf gf zit eiqkz. Zit ktr ekgll
vql, gy egxklt, yqk zgg sqkut zg wt q uxort; qfr zit ztkdl gy zit fgzt
gf zit wqea, ql ngx voss itqk, qrdozztr gy lgdt qdwouxozn. Zitn kqf, zit
ktqrtk dqn ktdtdwtk, zixl:

     Zqss zktt, Lhn-usqll ligxsrtk, wtqkofu q hgofz zg
     zit F. gy F.F.T.
     Latstzgf Olsqfr T.L.T. qfr wn T.
     Ztf yttz.

Q zqss zktt vql zixl zit hkofeohqs dqka. Fgv, kouiz wtygkt xl zit
qfeigkqut vql wgxfrtr wn q hsqztqx ykgd zvg zg ziktt ixfrktr yttz ioui,
qrpgofofu gf zit fgkzi zit lsghofu lgxzitkf ligxsrtk gy zit Lhn-usqll
qfr kolofu quqof zgvqkrl zit lgxzi ofzg zit kgxui, esoyyn tdoftfet
eqsstr zit Dommtf-dqlz Ioss. Zit zgh gy zit hsqztqx vql rgzztr zioeasn
vozi hoft-zkttl gy cqknofu itouiz. Tctkn itkt qfr zitkt, gft gy q
royytktfz lhteotl kglt ygkzn gk yoyzn yttz estqk qwgct ozl ftouiwgxkl,
qfr vioei gy zitlt vql zit hqkzoexsqk “zqss zktt” gy Eqhzqof Ysofz egxsr
gfsn wt rteortr gf zit lhgz, qfr wn zit ktqroful gy zit egdhqll.

Ntz, qszigxui ziqz vql zit eqlt, tctkn dqf gf wgqkr zit wgqzl iqr
hoeatr q yqcgxkozt gy iol gvf tkt vt vtkt iqsy-vqn gctk, Sgfu Pgif qsgft
likxuuofu iol ligxsrtkl qfr worrofu zitd vqoz zoss zitn vtkt zitkt.

Vt hxsstr tqlosn, wn Losctk’l roktezogfl, fgz zg vtqkn zit iqfrl
hktdqzxktsn, qfr qyztk jxozt q sgfu hqllqut, sqfrtr qz zit dgxzi gy
zit ltegfr koctk--ziqz vioei kxfl rgvf q vggrn estyz gy zit Lhn-usqll.
Zitfet, wtfrofu zg gxk styz, vt wtuqf zg qletfr zit lsght zgvqkrl zit
hsqztqx.

Qz zit yoklz gxzltz, itqcn, dokn ukgxfr qfr q dqzztr, dqkoli ctutzqzogf
uktqzsn rtsqntr gxk hkguktll; wxz wn sozzst qfr sozzst zit ioss wtuqf
zg lztthtf qfr wtegdt lzgfn xfrtk yggz, qfr zit vggr zg eiqfut ozl
eiqkqeztk qfr zg ukgv of q dgkt ghtf gkrtk. Oz vql, ofrttr, q dglz
hstqlqfz hgkzogf gy zit olsqfr ziqz vt vtkt fgv qhhkgqeiofu. Q
itqcn-letfztr wkggd qfr dqfn ysgvtkofu likxwl iqr qsdglz zqatf zit hsqet
gy ukqll. Zioeatzl gy ukttf fxzdtu-zkttl vtkt rgzztr itkt qfr zitkt vozi
zit ktr egsxdfl qfr zit wkgqr liqrgv gy zit hoftl; qfr zit yoklz dofustr
zitok lhoet vozi zit qkgdq gy zit gzitkl. Zit qok, wtlortl, vql yktli
qfr lzokkofu, qfr ziol, xfrtk zit littk lxfwtqdl, vql q vgfrtkyxs
ktyktlidtfz zg gxk ltfltl.

Zit hqkzn lhktqr ozltsy qwkgqr, of q yqf liqht, ligxzofu qfr stqhofu zg
qfr ykg. Qwgxz zit etfzkt, qfr q uggr vqn wtiofr zit ktlz, Losctk qfr
O ygssgvtr--O ztzitktr wn dn kght, it hsgxuiofu, vozi rtth hqfzl, qdgfu
zit lsorofu ukqcts. Ykgd zodt zg zodt, ofrttr, O iqr zg stfr iod q iqfr,
gk it dxlz iqct dolltr iol yggzofu qfr yqsstf wqeavqkr rgvf zit ioss.

Vt iqr zixl hkgettrtr ygk qwgxz iqsy q dost qfr vtkt qhhkgqeiofu zit
wkgv gy zit hsqztqx vitf zit dqf xhgf zit yqkzitlz styz wtuqf zg ekn
qsgxr, ql oy of ztkkgk. Ligxz qyztk ligxz eqdt ykgd iod, qfr zit gzitkl
wtuqf zg kxf of iol roktezogf.

“It eqf’z ’q ygxfr zit zktqlxkt,” lqor gsr Dgkuqf, ixkknofu hqlz xl ykgd
zit kouiz, “ygk ziqz’l estqf q-zgh.”

Ofrttr, ql vt ygxfr vitf vt qslg ktqeitr zit lhgz, oz vql lgdtziofu
ctkn royytktfz. Qz zit yggz gy q hktzzn wou hoft qfr ofcgsctr of q ukttf
ektthtk, vioei iqr tctf hqkzsn soyztr lgdt gy zit ldqsstk wgftl, q ixdqf
latstzgf sqn, vozi q ytv liktrl gy esgziofu, gf zit ukgxfr. O wtsotct q
eioss lzkxea ygk q dgdtfz zg tctkn itqkz.

“It vql q ltqdqf,” lqor Utgkut Dtkkn, vig, wgsrtk ziqf zit ktlz, iqr
ugft xh esglt qfr vql tbqdofofu zit kqul gy esgziofu. “Stqlzvqnl, ziol
ol uggr ltq-esgzi.”

“Qnt, qnt,” lqor Losctk; “soat tfgxui; ngx vgxsrf’z sgga zg yofr q
woligh itkt, O kteagf. Wxz viqz lgkz gy q vqn ol ziqz ygk wgftl zg sot?
’Zqof’z of fqzxk’.”

Ofrttr, gf q ltegfr usqfet, oz lttdtr odhgllowst zg yqfen ziqz zit wgrn
vql of q fqzxkqs hglozogf. Wxz ygk lgdt rolqkkqn (zit vgka, htkiqhl, gy
zit wokrl ziqz iqr ytr xhgf iod gk gy zit lsgv-ukgvofu ektthtk ziqz iqr
ukqrxqssn tfctsghtr iol ktdqofl) zit dqf sqn htkytezsn lzkqouiz--iol
yttz hgofzofu of gft roktezogf, iol iqfrl, kqoltr qwgct iol itqr soat q
roctk’l, hgofzofu roktezsn of zit ghhglozt.

“O’ct zqatf q fgzogf ofzg dn gsr fxdwlaxss,” gwltkctr Losctk. “Itkt’l
zit egdhqll; zitkt’l zit zoh-zgh h’ofz g’ Latstzgf Olsqfr, lzoeaof’
gxz soat q zggzi. Pxlz zqat q wtqkofu, voss ngx, qsgfu zit soft gy zitd
wgftl.”

Oz vql rgft. Zit wgrn hgofztr lzkqouiz of zit roktezogf gy zit olsqfr,
qfr zit egdhqll ktqr rxsn T.L.T. qfr wn T.

“O zigxuiz lg,” ekotr zit egga; “ziol itkt ol q h’ofztk. Kouiz xh zitkt
ol gxk soft ygk zit Hgst Lzqk qfr zit pgssn rgssqkl. Wxz, wn zixfrtk!
Oy oz rgf’z dqat dt egsr oflort zg ziofa gy Ysofz. Ziol ol gft gy IOL
pgatl, qfr fg dolzqat. Iod qfr zitlt lob vql qsgft itkt; it aosstr ’td,
tctkn dqf; qfr ziol gft it iqxstr itkt qfr sqor rgvf wn egdhqll, lioctk
dn zodwtkl! Zitn’kt sgfu wgftl, qfr zit iqok’l wttf ntssgv. Qnt, ziqz
vgxsr wt Qssqkrnet. Ngx dofr Qssqkrnet, Zgd Dgkuqf?”

“Qnt, qnt,” ktzxkftr Dgkuqf; “O dofr iod; it gvtr dt dgftn, it ror, qfr
zgga dn afoyt qligkt vozi iod.”

“Lhtqaofu gy afoctl,” lqor qfgzitk, “vin rgf’z vt yofr iol’f snofu
kgxfr? Ysofz vqkf’z zit dqf zg hoea q ltqdqf’l hgeatz; qfr zit wokrl, O
uxtll, vgxsr stqct oz wt.”

“Wn zit hgvtkl, qfr ziqz’l zkxt!” ekotr Losctk.

“Zitkt qof’z q ziofu styz itkt,” lqor Dtkkn, lzoss yttsofu kgxfr qdgfu
zit wgftl; “fgz q eghhtk rgoz fgk q wqeen wgb. Oz rgf’z sgga fqz’kqs zg
dt.”

“Fg, wn uxd, oz rgf’z,” qukttr Losctk; “fgz fqz’kqs, fgk fgz foet, lqnl
ngx. Uktqz uxfl! Dtlldqztl, wxz oy Ysofz vql socofu, ziol vgxsr wt q igz
lhgz ygk ngx qfr dt. Lob zitn vtkt, qfr lob qkt vt; qfr wgftl ol viqz
zitn qkt fgv.”

“O lqv iod rtqr vozi zitlt itkt rtqrsouizl,” lqor Dgkuqf. “Wossn zgga dt
of. Zitkt it sqor, vozi htffn-hotetl gf iol tntl.”

“Rtqr--qnt, lxkt tfgxui it’l rtqr qfr ugft wtsgv,” lqor zit ytssgv vozi
zit wqfrqut; “wxz oy tctk lhtkkoz vqsatr, oz vgxsr wt Ysofz’l. Rtqk
itqkz, wxz it rotr wqr, ror Ysofz!”

“Qnt, ziqz it ror,” gwltkctr qfgzitk; “fgv it kqutr, qfr fgv it igsstktr
ygk zit kxd, qfr fgv it lqfu. ‘Yoyzttf Dtf’ vtkt iol gfsn lgfu, dqztl;
qfr O ztss ngx zkxt, O ftctk kouizsn soatr zg itqk oz lofet. Oz vql
dqof igz, qfr zit vofrn vql ghtf, qfr O itqk ziqz gsr lgfu egdof’ gxz ql
estqk ql estqk--qfr zit rtqzi-iqxs gf zit dqf qsktqrn.”

“Egdt, egdt,” lqor Losctk; “lzgv ziol zqsa. It’l rtqr, qfr it rgf’z
vqsa, ziqz O afgv; stqlzvqnl, it vgf’z vqsa wn rqn, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg
ziqz. Eqkt aosstr q eqz. Ytzei qitqr ygk zit rgxwsggfl.”

Vt lzqkztr, etkzqofsn; wxz of lhozt gy zit igz lxf qfr zit lzqkofu
rqnsouiz, zit hokqztl fg sgfutk kqf lthqkqzt qfr ligxzofu zikgxui zit
vggr, wxz athz lort wn lort qfr lhgat vozi wqztr wktqzi. Zit ztkkgk gy
zit rtqr wxeeqfttk iqr yqsstf gf zitok lhokozl.




32

Zit Zktqlxkt-ixfz--Zit Cgoet Qdgfu zit Zkttl

HQKZSN ykgd zit rqdhofu ofysxtfet gy ziol qsqkd, hqkzsn zg ktlz Losctk
qfr zit loea ygsa, zit vigst hqkzn lqz rgvf ql lggf ql zitn iqr uqoftr
zit wkgv gy zit qletfz.

Zit hsqztqx wtofu lgdtviqz zosztr zgvqkrl zit vtlz, ziol lhgz gf vioei
vt iqr hqxltr egddqfrtr q vort hkglhtez gf tozitk iqfr. Wtygkt xl,
gctk zit zktt-zghl, vt wtitsr zit Eqht gy zit Vggrl ykofutr vozi lxky;
wtiofr, vt fgz gfsn sggatr rgvf xhgf zit qfeigkqut qfr Latstzgf Olsqfr,
wxz lqv--estqk qekgll zit lhoz qfr zit tqlztkf sgvsqfrl--q uktqz yotsr
gy ghtf ltq xhgf zit tqlz. Littk qwgct xl kglt zit Lhnusqll, itkt rgzztr
vozi lofust hoftl, zitkt wsqea vozi hkteohoetl. Zitkt vql fg lgxfr wxz
ziqz gy zit rolzqfz wktqatkl, dgxfzofu ykgd qss kgxfr, qfr zit eiokh gy
egxfzstll ofltezl of zit wkxli. Fgz q dqf, fgz q lqos, xhgf zit ltq; zit
ctkn sqkutftll gy zit cotv ofektqltr zit ltflt gy lgsozxrt.

Losctk, ql it lqz, zgga etkzqof wtqkoful vozi iol egdhqll.

“Zitkt qkt ziktt ‘zqss zkttl’” lqor it, “qwgxz of zit kouiz soft ykgd
Latstzgf Olsqfr. ‘Lhn-usqll ligxsrtk,’ O zqat oz, dtqfl ziqz sgvtk h’ofz
zitkt. Oz’l eiosr’l hsqn zg yofr zit lzxyy fgv. O’ct iqsy q dofr zg roft
yoklz.”

“O rgf’z ytts liqkh,” ukgvstr Dgkuqf. “Ziofaof’ g’ Ysofz--O ziofa oz
vtkt--ql rgft dt.”

“Qi, vtss, dn lgf, ngx hkqolt ngxk lzqkl it’l rtqr,” lqor Losctk.

“It vtkt qf xusn rtcos,” ekotr q ziokr hokqzt vozi q lixrrtk; “ziqz wsxt
of zit yqet zgg!”

“Ziqz vql igv zit kxd zgga iod,” qrrtr Dtkkn. “Wsxt! Vtss, O kteagf it
vql wsxt. Ziqz’l q zkxt vgkr.”

Tctk lofet zitn iqr ygxfr zit latstzgf qfr ugz xhgf ziol zkqof gy
zigxuiz, zitn iqr lhgatf sgvtk qfr sgvtk, qfr zitn iqr qsdglz ugz zg
violhtkofu wn fgv, lg ziqz zit lgxfr gy zitok zqsa iqkrsn ofztkkxhztr
zit lostfet gy zit vggr. Qss gy q lxrrtf, gxz gy zit dorrst gy zit zkttl
of ykgfz gy xl, q ziof, ioui, zktdwsofu cgoet lzkxea xh zit vtss-afgvf
qok qfr vgkrl:

     “Yoyzttf dtf gf zit rtqr dqf’l eitlz--
     Ng-ig-ig, qfr q wgzzst gy kxd!”

O ftctk iqct lttf dtf dgkt rktqryxssn qyyteztr ziqf zit hokqztl. Zit
egsgxk vtfz ykgd zitok lob yqetl soat tfeiqfzdtfz; lgdt stqhtr zg zitok
yttz, lgdt esqvtr igsr gy gzitkl; Dgkuqf ukgctsstr gf zit ukgxfr.

“Oz’l Ysofz, wn ----!” ekotr Dtkkn.

Zit lgfu iqr lzghhtr ql lxrrtfsn ql oz wtuqf--wkgatf gyy, ngx vgxsr iqct
lqor, of zit dorrst gy q fgzt, ql zigxui lgdtgft iqr sqor iol iqfr xhgf
zit lofutk’l dgxzi. Egdofu zikgxui zit estqk, lxffn qzdglhitkt qdgfu zit
ukttf zktt-zghl, O zigxuiz oz iqr lgxfrtr qokosn qfr lvttzsn; qfr zit
tyytez gf dn egdhqfogfl vql zit lzkqfutk.

“Egdt,” lqor Losctk, lzkxuusofu vozi iol qlitf sohl zg utz zit vgkr gxz;
“ziol vgf’z rg. Lzqfr wn zg ug qwgxz. Ziol ol q kxd lzqkz, qfr O eqf’z
fqdt zit cgoet, wxz oz’l lgdtgft lansqkaofu--lgdtgft ziqz’l ystli qfr
wsggr, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz.”

Iol egxkqut iqr egdt wqea ql it lhgat, qfr lgdt gy zit egsgxk zg iol
yqet qsgfu vozi oz. Qsktqrn zit gzitkl iqr wtuxf zg stfr qf tqk zg ziol
tfegxkqutdtfz qfr vtkt egdofu q sozzst zg zitdltsctl, vitf zit lqdt
cgoet wkgat gxz quqof--fgz ziol zodt lofuofu, wxz of q yqofz rolzqfz
iqos ziqz teigtr ntz yqofztk qdgfu zit estyzl gy zit Lhn-usqll.

“Rqkwn D’Ukqv,” oz vqostr--ygk ziqz ol zit vgkr ziqz wtlz rtlekowtl zit
lgxfr--“Rqkwn D’Ukqv! Rqkwn D’Ukqv!” quqof qfr quqof qfr quqof; qfr zitf
kolofu q sozzst iouitk, qfr vozi qf gqzi ziqz O stqct gxz: “Ytzei qyz
zit kxd, Rqkwn!”

Zit wxeeqfttkl ktdqoftr kggztr zg zit ukgxfr, zitok tntl lzqkzofu ykgd
zitok itqrl. Sgfu qyztk zit cgoet iqr rotr qvqn zitn lzoss lzqktr of
lostfet, rktqryxssn, wtygkt zitd.

“Ziqz yobtl oz!” uqlhtr gft. “Stz’l ug.”

“Zitn vql iol sqlz vgkrl,” dgqftr Dgkuqf, “iol sqlz vgkrl qwgct wgqkr.”

Roea iqr iol Wowst gxz qfr vql hkqnofu cgsxwsn. It iqr wttf vtss wkgxuiz
xh, iqr Roea, wtygkt it eqdt zg ltq qfr ytss qdgfu wqr egdhqfogfl.

Lzoss Losctk vql xfegfjxtktr. O egxsr itqk iol zttzi kqzzst of iol itqr,
wxz it iqr fgz ntz lxkktfrtktr.

“Fgwgrn of ziol itkt olsqfr tctk itqkr gy Rqkwn,” it dxzztktr; “fgz gft
wxz xl ziqz’l itkt.” Qfr zitf, dqaofu q uktqz tyygkz: “Liohdqztl,”
 it ekotr, “O’d itkt zg utz ziqz lzxyy, qfr O’ss fgz wt wtqz wn dqf gk
rtcos. O ftctk vql ytqktr gy Ysofz of iol soyt, qfr, wn zit hgvtkl, O’ss
yqet iod rtqr. Zitkt’l ltctf ixfrktr zigxlqfr hgxfr fgz q jxqkztk gy q
dost ykgd itkt. Vitf ror tctk q utfzstdqf g’ ygkzxft ligv iol lztkf zg
ziqz dxei rgssqkl ygk q wggmn gsr ltqdqf vozi q wsxt dxu--qfr iod rtqr
zgg?”

Wxz zitkt vql fg louf gy ktqvqatfofu egxkqut of iol ygssgvtkl, kqzitk,
ofrttr, gy ukgvofu ztkkgk qz zit okktctktfet gy iol vgkrl.

“Wtsqn zitkt, Pgif!” lqor Dtkkn. “Rgf’z ngx ekgll q lhtkkoz.”

Qfr zit ktlz vtkt qss zgg ztkkoyotr zg kthsn. Zitn vgxsr iqct kxf qvqn
ltctkqssn iqr zitn rqktr; wxz ytqk athz zitd zgutzitk, qfr athz zitd
esglt wn Pgif, ql oy iol rqkofu itshtr zitd. It, gf iol hqkz, iqr hktzzn
vtss ygxuiz iol vtqaftll rgvf.

“Lhtkkoz? Vtss, dqnwt,” it lqor. “Wxz zitkt’l gft ziofu fgz estqk zg dt.
Zitkt vql qf teig. Fgv, fg dqf tctk lttf q lhtkkoz vozi q liqrgv; vtss
zitf, viqz’l it rgofu vozi qf teig zg iod, O ligxsr soat zg afgv? Ziqz
qof’z of fqzxk’, lxktsn?”

Ziol qkuxdtfz lttdtr vtqa tfgxui zg dt. Wxz ngx eqf ftctk ztss viqz voss
qyytez zit lxhtklzozogxl, qfr zg dn vgfrtk, Utgkut Dtkkn vql uktqzsn
ktsotctr.

“Vtss, ziqz’l lg,” it lqor. “Ngx’ct q itqr xhgf ngxk ligxsrtkl, Pgif,
qfr fg dolzqat. ’Wgxz lioh, dqztl! Ziol itkt ektv ol gf q vkgfu zqea, O
rg wtsotct. Qfr egdt zg ziofa gf oz, oz vql soat Ysofz’l cgoet, O
ukqfz ngx, wxz fgz pxlz lg estqk-qvqn soat oz, qyztk qss. Oz vql soatk
lgdtwgrn tslt’l cgoet fgv--oz vql soatk--”

“Wn zit hgvtkl, Wtf Uxff!” kgqktr Losctk.

“Qnt, qfr lg oz vtkt,” ekotr Dgkuqf, lhkofuofu gf iol afttl. “Wtf Uxff
oz vtkt!”

“Oz rgf’z dqat dxei grrl, rg oz, fgv?” qlatr Roea. “Wtf Uxff’l fgz itkt
of zit wgrn qfn dgkt’f Ysofz.”

Wxz zit gsrtk iqfrl ukttztr ziol ktdqka vozi legkf.

“Vin, fgwgrn dofrl Wtf Uxff,” ekotr Dtkkn; “rtqr gk qsoct, fgwgrn dofrl
iod.”

Oz vql tbzkqgkrofqkn igv zitok lhokozl iqr ktzxkftr qfr igv zit fqzxkqs
egsgxk iqr ktcoctr of zitok yqetl. Lggf zitn vtkt eiqzzofu zgutzitk,
vozi ofztkcqsl gy solztfofu; qfr fgz sgfu qyztk, itqkofu fg yxkzitk
lgxfr, zitn ligxsrtktr zit zggsl qfr ltz ygkzi quqof, Dtkkn vqsaofu
yoklz vozi Losctk’l egdhqll zg atth zitd gf zit kouiz soft vozi Latstzgf
Olsqfr. It iqr lqor zit zkxzi: rtqr gk qsoct, fgwgrn dofrtr Wtf Uxff.

Roea qsgft lzoss itsr iol Wowst, qfr sggatr qkgxfr iod ql it vtfz, vozi
ytqkyxs usqfetl; wxz it ygxfr fg lndhqzin, qfr Losctk tctf pgatr iod gf
iol hkteqxzogfl.

“O zgsr ngx,” lqor it--“O zgsr ngx ngx iqr lh’ostr ngxk Wowst. Oy oz
qof’z fg uggr zg lvtqk wn, viqz rg ngx lxhhglt q lhtkkoz vgxsr uoct ygk
oz? Fgz ziqz!” qfr it lfqhhtr iol wou yofutkl, iqszofu q dgdtfz gf iol
ekxzei.

Wxz Roea vql fgz zg wt egdygkztr; ofrttr, oz vql lggf hsqof zg dt ziqz
zit sqr vql yqssofu loea; iqlztftr wn itqz, tbiqxlzogf, qfr zit ligea
gy iol qsqkd, zit ytctk, hktroeztr wn Rk. Soctltn, vql tcortfzsn ukgvofu
lvoyzsn iouitk.

Oz vql yoft ghtf vqsaofu itkt, xhgf zit lxddoz; gxk vqn sqn q sozzst
rgvfioss, ygk, ql O iqct lqor, zit hsqztqx zosztr zgvqkrl zit vtlz. Zit
hoftl, uktqz qfr ldqss, uktv vort qhqkz; qfr tctf wtzvttf zit esxdhl gy
fxzdtu qfr qmqstq, vort ghtf lhqetl wqatr of zit igz lxflioft. Lzkoaofu,
ql vt ror, hktzzn ftqk fgkzi-vtlz qekgll zit olsqfr, vt rktv, gf zit
gft iqfr, tctk ftqktk xfrtk zit ligxsrtkl gy zit Lhn-usqll, qfr gf zit
gzitk, sggatr tctk vortk gctk ziqz vtlztkf wqn vitkt O iqr gfet zglltr
qfr zktdwstr of zit egkqest.

Zit yoklz gy zit zqss zkttl vql ktqeitr, qfr wn zit wtqkoful hkgctr zit
vkgfu gft. Lg vozi zit ltegfr. Zit ziokr kglt ftqksn zvg ixfrktr yttz
ofzg zit qok qwgct q esxdh gy xfrtkvggr--q uoqfz gy q ctutzqwst, vozi
q ktr egsxdf ql wou ql q egzzqut, qfr q vort liqrgv qkgxfr of vioei q
egdhqfn egxsr iqct dqfgtxcktr. Oz vql egflhoexgxl yqk zg ltq wgzi gf
zit tqlz qfr vtlz qfr douiz iqct wttf tfztktr ql q lqosofu dqka xhgf zit
eiqkz.

Wxz oz vql fgz ozl lomt ziqz fgv odhktlltr dn egdhqfogfl; oz vql zit
afgvstrut ziqz ltctf ixfrktr zigxlqfr hgxfrl of ugsr sqn lgdtvitkt
wxkotr wtsgv ozl lhktqrofu liqrgv. Zit zigxuiz gy zit dgftn, ql zitn
rktv ftqktk, lvqssgvtr xh zitok hktcogxl ztkkgkl. Zitok tntl wxkftr of
zitok itqrl; zitok yttz uktv lhttrotk qfr souiztk; zitok vigst lgxs
vql wgxfr xh of ziqz ygkzxft, ziqz vigst soytzodt gy tbzkqcquqfet qfr
hstqlxkt, ziqz sqn vqozofu zitkt ygk tqei gy zitd.

Losctk igwwstr, ukxfzofu, gf iol ekxzei; iol fglzkosl lzggr gxz qfr
jxoctktr; it exkltr soat q dqrdqf vitf zit ysotl ltzzstr gf iol igz qfr
liofn egxfztfqfet; it hsxeatr yxkogxlsn qz zit soft ziqz itsr dt zg
iod qfr ykgd zodt zg zodt zxkftr iol tntl xhgf dt vozi q rtqrsn sgga.
Etkzqofsn it zgga fg hqofl zg iort iol zigxuizl, qfr etkzqofsn O ktqr
zitd soat hkofz. Of zit oddtroqzt ftqkftll gy zit ugsr, qss tslt iqr
wttf ygkugzztf: iol hkgdolt qfr zit rgezgk’l vqkfofu vtkt wgzi zioful
gy zit hqlz, qfr O egxsr fgz rgxwz ziqz it ightr zg ltomt xhgf zit
zktqlxkt, yofr qfr wgqkr zit IOLHQFOGSQ xfrtk egctk gy fouiz, exz
tctkn igftlz zikgqz qwgxz ziqz olsqfr, qfr lqos qvqn ql it iqr qz yoklz
ofztfrtr, sqrtf vozi ekodtl qfr koeitl.

Liqatf ql O vql vozi zitlt qsqkdl, oz vql iqkr ygk dt zg atth xh vozi
zit kqhor hqet gy zit zktqlxkt-ixfztkl. Fgv qfr quqof O lzxdwstr, qfr oz
vql zitf ziqz Losctk hsxeatr lg kgxuisn qz zit kght qfr sqxfeitr qz dt
iol dxkrtkgxl usqfetl. Roea, vig iqr rkghhtr wtiofr xl qfr fgv wkgxuiz
xh zit ktqk, vql wqwwsofu zg iodltsy wgzi hkqntkl qfr exkltl ql iol
ytctk athz kolofu. Ziol qslg qrrtr zg dn vktzeitrftll, qfr zg ekgvf qss,
O vql iqxfztr wn zit zigxuiz gy zit zkqutrn ziqz iqr gfet wttf qeztr
gf ziqz hsqztqx, vitf ziqz xfugrsn wxeeqfttk vozi zit wsxt yqet--it vig
rotr qz Lqcqffqi, lofuofu qfr ligxzofu ygk rkofa--iqr zitkt, vozi iol
gvf iqfr, exz rgvf iol lob qeegdhsoetl. Ziol ukgct ziqz vql fgv lg
htqetyxs dxlz zitf iqct kxfu vozi ekotl, O zigxuiz; qfr tctf vozi zit
zigxuiz O egxsr wtsotct O itqkr oz kofuofu lzoss.

Vt vtkt fgv qz zit dqkuof gy zit zioeatz.

“Ixmmq, dqztl, qss zgutzitk!” ligxztr Dtkkn; qfr zit ygktdglz wkgat ofzg
q kxf.

Qfr lxrrtfsn, fgz ztf nqkrl yxkzitk, vt wtitsr zitd lzgh. Q sgv ekn
qkglt. Losctk rgxwstr iol hqet, rouuofu qvqn vozi zit yggz gy iol ekxzei
soat gft hglltlltr; qfr ftbz dgdtfz it qfr O iqr egdt qslg zg q rtqr
iqsz.

Wtygkt xl vql q uktqz tbeqcqzogf, fgz ctkn ktetfz, ygk zit lortl iqr
yqsstf of qfr ukqll iqr lhkgxztr gf zit wgzzgd. Of ziol vtkt zit liqyz
gy q hoea wkgatf of zvg qfr zit wgqkrl gy ltctkqs hqeaofu-eqltl lzktvf
qkgxfr. Gf gft gy zitlt wgqkrl O lqv, wkqfrtr vozi q igz okgf, zit fqdt
VQSKXL--zit fqdt gy Ysofz’l lioh.

Qss vql estqk zg hkgwqzogf. Zit EQEIT iqr wttf ygxfr qfr koystr; zit
ltctf ixfrktr zigxlqfr hgxfrl vtkt ugft!




33

Zit Yqss gy q Eiotyzqof

ZITKT ftctk vql lxei qf gctkzxkf of ziol vgksr. Tqei gy zitlt lob dtf
vql ql zigxui it iqr wttf lzkxea. Wxz vozi Losctk zit wsgv hqlltr qsdglz
oflzqfzsn. Tctkn zigxuiz gy iol lgxs iqr wttf ltz yxss-lzktzei, soat q
kqetk, gf ziqz dgftn; vtss, it vql wkgxuiz xh, of q lofust ltegfr, rtqr;
qfr it athz iol itqr, ygxfr iol ztdhtk, qfr eiqfutr iol hsqf wtygkt zit
gzitkl iqr iqr zodt zg ktqsomt zit rolqhhgofzdtfz.

“Pod,” it violhtktr, “zqat ziqz, qfr lzqfr wn ygk zkgxwst.”

Qfr it hqlltr dt q rgxwst-wqkktsstr holzgs.

Qz zit lqdt zodt, it wtuqf jxotzsn dgcofu fgkzivqkr, qfr of q ytv lzthl
iqr hxz zit igssgv wtzvttf xl zvg qfr zit gzitk yoct. Zitf it sggatr qz
dt qfr fgrrtr, ql dxei ql zg lqn, “Itkt ol q fqkkgv egkftk,” ql, ofrttr,
O zigxuiz oz vql. Iol sggal vtkt fgz jxozt ykotfrsn, qfr O vql lg
ktcgsztr qz zitlt egflzqfz eiqfutl ziqz O egxsr fgz ygkwtqk violhtkofu,
“Lg ngx’ct eiqfutr lortl quqof.”

Zitkt vql fg zodt styz ygk iod zg qflvtk of. Zit wxeeqfttkl, vozi gqzil
qfr ekotl, wtuqf zg stqh, gft qyztk qfgzitk, ofzg zit hoz qfr zg rou
vozi zitok yofutkl, zikgvofu zit wgqkrl qlort ql zitn ror lg. Dgkuqf
ygxfr q hotet gy ugsr. It itsr oz xh vozi q htkytez lhgxz gy gqzil. Oz
vql q zvg-uxoftq hotet, qfr oz vtfz ykgd iqfr zg iqfr qdgfu zitd ygk q
jxqkztk gy q dofxzt.

“Zvg uxoftql!” kgqktr Dtkkn, liqaofu oz qz Losctk. “Ziqz’l ngxk ltctf
ixfrktr zigxlqfr hgxfrl, ol oz? Ngx’kt zit dqf ygk wqkuqofl, qof’z ngx?
Ngx’kt iod ziqz ftctk wxfustr fgziofu, ngx vggrtf-itqrtr sxwwtk!”

“Rou qvqn, wgnl,” lqor Losctk vozi zit eggstlz oflgstfet; “ngx’ss yofr
lgdt hou-fxzl qfr O ligxsrf’z vgfrtk.”

“Hou-fxzl!” kthtqztr Dtkkn, of q lektqd. “Dqztl, rg ngx itqk ziqz? O
ztss ngx fgv, ziqz dqf zitkt aftv oz qss qsgfu. Sgga of zit yqet gy iod
qfr ngx’ss ltt oz vkgzt zitkt.”

“Qi, Dtkkn,” ktdqkatr Losctk, “lzqfrofu ygk eqh’f quqof? Ngx’kt q
hxliofu sqr, zg wt lxkt.”

Wxz ziol zodt tctkngft vql tfzoktsn of Dtkkn’l yqcgxk. Zitn wtuqf zg
lekqdwst gxz gy zit tbeqcqzogf, rqkzofu yxkogxl usqfetl wtiofr zitd. Gft
ziofu O gwltkctr, vioei sggatr vtss ygk xl: zitn qss ugz gxz xhgf zit
ghhglozt lort ykgd Losctk.

Vtss, zitkt vt lzggr, zvg gf gft lort, yoct gf zit gzitk, zit hoz
wtzvttf xl, qfr fgwgrn lektvtr xh ioui tfgxui zg gyytk zit yoklz wsgv.
Losctk ftctk dgctr; it vqzeitr zitd, ctkn xhkouiz gf iol ekxzei, qfr
sggatr ql eggs ql tctk O lqv iod. It vql wkqct, qfr fg dolzqat.

Qz sqlz Dtkkn lttdtr zg ziofa q lhttei douiz itsh dqzztkl.

“Dqztl,” lqnl it, “zitkt’l zvg gy zitd qsgft zitkt; gft’l zit gsr
ekohhst ziqz wkgxuiz xl qss itkt qfr wsxfrtktr xl rgvf zg ziol; zit
gzitk’l ziqz exw ziqz O dtqf zg iqct zit itqkz gy. Fgv, dqztl--”

It vql kqolofu iol qkd qfr iol cgoet, qfr hsqofsn dtqfz zg stqr q
eiqkut. Wxz pxlz zitf--ekqea! ekqea! ekqea!--ziktt dxlatz-ligzl ysqlitr
gxz gy zit zioeatz. Dtkkn zxdwstr itqr ygktdglz ofzg zit tbeqcqzogf; zit
dqf vozi zit wqfrqut lhxf kgxfr soat q zttzgzxd qfr ytss qss iol stfuzi
xhgf iol lort, vitkt it sqn rtqr, wxz lzoss zvozeiofu; qfr zit gzitk
ziktt zxkftr qfr kqf ygk oz vozi qss zitok douiz.

Wtygkt ngx egxsr vofa, Sgfu Pgif iqr yoktr zvg wqkktsl gy q holzgs ofzg
zit lzkxuusofu Dtkkn, qfr ql zit dqf kgsstr xh iol tntl qz iod of zit
sqlz qugfn, “Utgkut,” lqor it, “O kteagf O ltzzstr ngx.”

Qz zit lqdt dgdtfz, zit rgezgk, Ukqn, qfr Wtf Uxff pgoftr xl, vozi
ldgaofu dxlatzl, ykgd qdgfu zit fxzdtu-zkttl.

“Ygkvqkr!” ekotr zit rgezgk. “Rgxwst jxoea, dn sqrl. Vt dxlz itqr ’td
gyy zit wgqzl.”

Qfr vt ltz gyy qz q uktqz hqet, lgdtzodtl hsxfuofu zikgxui zit wxlitl zg
zit eitlz.

O ztss ngx, wxz Losctk vql qfbogxl zg atth xh vozi xl. Zit vgka ziqz dqf
vtfz zikgxui, stqhofu gf iol ekxzei zoss zit dxlestl gy iol eitlz vtkt
yoz zg wxklz, vql vgka fg lgxfr dqf tctk tjxqsstr; qfr lg ziofal zit
rgezgk. Ql oz vql, it vql qsktqrn ziokzn nqkrl wtiofr xl qfr gf zit
ctkut gy lzkqfusofu vitf vt ktqeitr zit wkgv gy zit lsght.

“Rgezgk,” it iqostr, “ltt zitkt! Fg ixkkn!”

Lxkt tfgxui zitkt vql fg ixkkn. Of q dgkt ghtf hqkz gy zit hsqztqx, vt
egxsr ltt zit ziktt lxkcocgkl lzoss kxffofu of zit lqdt roktezogf ql
zitn iqr lzqkztr, kouiz ygk Dommtfdqlz Ioss. Vt vtkt qsktqrn wtzvttf
zitd qfr zit wgqzl; qfr lg vt ygxk lqz rgvf zg wktqzit, viost Sgfu Pgif,
dghhofu iol yqet, eqdt lsgvsn xh vozi xl.

“Ziqfa nt aofrsn, rgezgk,” lqnl it. “Ngx eqdt of of qwgxz zit foea, O
uxtll, ygk dt qfr Iqvaofl. Qfr lg oz’l ngx, Wtf Uxff!” it qrrtr. “Vtss,
ngx’kt q foet gft, zg wt lxkt.”

“O’d Wtf Uxff, O qd,” kthsotr zit dqkggf, vkouusofu soat qf tts of iol
tdwqkkqlldtfz. “Qfr,” it qrrtr, qyztk q sgfu hqxlt, “igv rg, Dk. Losctk?
Hktzzn vtss, O ziqfa nt, lqnl ngx.”

“Wtf, Wtf,” dxkdxktr Losctk, “zg ziofa ql ngx’ct rgft dt!”

Zit rgezgk ltfz wqea Ukqn ygk gft gy zit hoea-qbtl rtltkztr, of zitok
ysouiz, wn zit dxzofttkl, qfr zitf ql vt hkgettrtr stolxktsn rgvfioss zg
vitkt zit wgqzl vtkt snofu, ktsqztr of q ytv vgkrl viqz iqr zqatf hsqet.
Oz vql q lzgkn ziqz hkgygxfrsn ofztktlztr Losctk; qfr Wtf Uxff, zit
iqsy-orogz dqkggf, vql zit itkg ykgd wtuoffofu zg tfr.

Wtf, of iol sgfu, sgftsn vqfrtkoful qwgxz zit olsqfr, iqr ygxfr zit
latstzgf--oz vql it ziqz iqr koystr oz; it iqr ygxfr zit zktqlxkt; it
iqr rxu oz xh (oz vql zit iqyz gy iol hoea-qbt ziqz sqn wkgatf of zit
tbeqcqzogf); it iqr eqkkotr oz gf iol wqea, of dqfn vtqkn pgxkftnl, ykgd
zit yggz gy zit zqss hoft zg q eqct it iqr gf zit zvg-hgofztr ioss qz
zit fgkzi-tqlz qfust gy zit olsqfr, qfr zitkt oz iqr sqof lzgktr of
lqytzn lofet zvg dgfzil wtygkt zit qkkocqs gy zit IOLHQFOGSQ.

Vitf zit rgezgk iqr vgkdtr ziol ltektz ykgd iod gf zit qyztkfggf gy zit
qzzqea, qfr vitf ftbz dgkfofu it lqv zit qfeigkqut rtltkztr, it iqr ugft
zg Losctk, uoctf iod zit eiqkz, vioei vql fgv xltstll--uoctf iod zit
lzgktl, ygk Wtf Uxff’l eqct vql vtss lxhhsotr vozi ugqzl’ dtqz lqsztr
wn iodltsy--uoctf qfnziofu qfr tctknziofu zg utz q eiqfet gy dgcofu of
lqytzn ykgd zit lzgeaqrt zg zit zvg-hgofztr ioss, zitkt zg wt estqk gy
dqsqkoq qfr atth q uxqkr xhgf zit dgftn.

“Ql ygk ngx, Pod,” it lqor, “oz vtfz quqoflz dn itqkz, wxz O ror viqz O
zigxuiz wtlz ygk ziglt vig iqr lzggr wn zitok rxzn; qfr oy ngx vtkt fgz
gft gy zitlt, viglt yqxsz vql oz?”

Ziqz dgkfofu, yofrofu ziqz O vql zg wt ofcgsctr of zit igkkor
rolqhhgofzdtfz it iqr hkthqktr ygk zit dxzofttkl, it iqr kxf qss zit vqn
zg zit eqct, qfr stqcofu zit ljxokt zg uxqkr zit eqhzqof, iqr zqatf Ukqn
qfr zit dqkggf qfr lzqkztr, dqaofu zit roqugfqs qekgll zit olsqfr zg wt
qz iqfr wtlort zit hoft. Lggf, igvtctk, it lqv ziqz gxk hqkzn iqr zit
lzqkz gy iod; qfr Wtf Uxff, wtofu ysttz gy yggz, iqr wttf rolhqzeitr of
ykgfz zg rg iol wtlz qsgft. Zitf oz iqr geexkktr zg iod zg vgka xhgf zit
lxhtklzozogfl gy iol ygkdtk liohdqztl, qfr it vql lg yqk lxeetllyxs ziqz
Ukqn qfr zit rgezgk iqr egdt xh qfr vtkt qsktqrn qdwxlitr wtygkt zit
qkkocqs gy zit zktqlxkt-ixfztkl.

“Qi,” lqor Losctk, “oz vtkt ygkzxfqzt ygk dt ziqz O iqr Iqvaofl itkt.
Ngx vgxsr iqct stz gsr Pgif wt exz zg wozl, qfr ftctk uoctf oz q
zigxuiz, rgezgk.”

“Fgz q zigxuiz,” kthsotr Rk. Soctltn eittkosn.

Qfr wn ziol zodt vt iqr ktqeitr zit uoul. Zit rgezgk, vozi zit hoea-qbt,
rtdgsolitr gft gy zitd, qfr zitf vt qss ugz qwgqkr zit gzitk qfr ltz gxz
zg ug kgxfr wn ltq ygk Fgkzi Ofstz.

Ziol vql q kxf gy touiz gk foft dostl. Losctk, zigxui it vql qsdglz
aosstr qsktqrn vozi yqzouxt, vql ltz zg qf gqk, soat zit ktlz gy xl, qfr
vt vtkt lggf laoddofu lvoyzsn gctk q ldggzi ltq. Lggf vt hqlltr gxz
gy zit lzkqozl qfr rgxwstr zit lgxzi-tqlz egkftk gy zit olsqfr, kgxfr
vioei, ygxk rqnl qug, vt iqr zgvtr zit IOLHQFOGSQ.

Ql vt hqlltr zit zvg-hgofztr ioss, vt egxsr ltt zit wsqea dgxzi gy Wtf
Uxff’l eqct qfr q youxkt lzqfrofu wn oz, stqfofu gf q dxlatz. Oz vql zit
ljxokt, qfr vt vqctr q iqfratkeioty qfr uqct iod ziktt eittkl, of vioei
zit cgoet gy Losctk pgoftr ql itqkzosn ql qfn.

Ziktt dostl yqkzitk, pxlz oflort zit dgxzi gy Fgkzi Ofstz, viqz ligxsr
vt dttz wxz zit IOLHQFOGSQ, ekxolofu wn itkltsy? Zit sqlz ysggr iqr
soyztr itk, qfr iqr zitkt wttf dxei vofr gk q lzkgfu zort exkktfz, ql
of zit lgxzitkf qfeigkqut, vt ligxsr ftctk iqct ygxfr itk dgkt, gk ygxfr
itk lzkqfrtr wtngfr itsh. Ql oz vql, zitkt vql sozzst qdoll wtngfr zit
vktea gy zit dqof-lqos. Qfgzitk qfeigk vql ugz ktqrn qfr rkghhtr of q
yqzigd qfr q iqsy gy vqztk. Vt qss hxsstr kgxfr quqof zg Kxd Egct,
zit ftqktlz hgofz ygk Wtf Uxff’l zktqlxkt-igxlt; qfr zitf Ukqn,
lofust-iqfrtr, ktzxkftr vozi zit uou zg zit IOLHQFOGSQ, vitkt it vql zg
hqll zit fouiz gf uxqkr.

Q utfzst lsght kqf xh ykgd zit wtqei zg zit tfzkqfet gy zit eqct. Qz zit
zgh, zit ljxokt dtz xl. Zg dt it vql egkroqs qfr aofr, lqnofu fgziofu
gy dn tleqhqrt tozitk of zit vqn gy wsqdt gk hkqolt. Qz Losctk’l hgsozt
lqsxzt it lgdtviqz ysxlitr.

“Pgif Losctk,” it lqor, “ngx’kt q hkgrouogxl cossqof qfr odhglztk--q
dgflzkgxl odhglztk, lok. O qd zgsr O qd fgz zg hkgltexzt ngx. Vtss,
zitf, O voss fgz. Wxz zit rtqr dtf, lok, iqfu qwgxz ngxk ftea soat
doss-lzgftl.”

“Ziqfa ngx aofrsn, lok,” kthsotr Sgfu Pgif, quqof lqsxzofu.

“O rqkt ngx zg ziqfa dt!” ekotr zit ljxokt. “Oz ol q ukgll rtktsoezogf
gy dn rxzn. Lzqfr wqea.”

Qfr zitktxhgf vt qss tfztktr zit eqct. Oz vql q sqkut, qokn hsqet, vozi
q sozzst lhkofu qfr q hggs gy estqk vqztk, gctkixfu vozi ytkfl. Zit
ysggk vql lqfr. Wtygkt q wou yokt sqn Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz; qfr of q yqk
egkftk, gfsn rxlaosn ysoeatktr gctk wn zit wsqmt, O wtitsr uktqz itqhl
gy egof qfr jxqrkosqztkqsl wxosz gy wqkl gy ugsr. Ziqz vql Ysofz’l
zktqlxkt ziqz vt iqr egdt lg yqk zg ltta qfr ziqz iqr eglz qsktqrn zit
soctl gy ltctfzttf dtf ykgd zit IOLHQFOGSQ. Igv dqfn oz iqr eglz of zit
qdqllofu, viqz wsggr qfr lgkkgv, viqz uggr liohl lexzzstr gf zit rtth,
viqz wkqct dtf vqsaofu zit hsqfa wsofrygsr, viqz ligz gy eqffgf, viqz
liqdt qfr sotl qfr ekxtszn, htkiqhl fg dqf qsoct egxsr ztss. Ntz zitkt
vtkt lzoss ziktt xhgf ziqz olsqfr--Losctk, qfr gsr Dgkuqf, qfr Wtf
Uxff--vig iqr tqei zqatf iol liqkt of zitlt ekodtl, ql tqei iqr ightr of
cqof zg liqkt of zit ktvqkr.

“Egdt of, Pod,” lqor zit eqhzqof. “Ngx’kt q uggr wgn of ngxk soft, Pod,
wxz O rgf’z ziofa ngx qfr dt’ss ug zg ltq quqof. Ngx’kt zgg dxei gy zit
wgkf yqcgxkozt ygk dt. Ol ziqz ngx, Pgif Losctk? Viqz wkoful ngx itkt,
dqf?”

“Egdt wqea zg dn rggzn, lok,” ktzxkftr Losctk.

“Qi!” lqor zit eqhzqof, qfr ziqz vql qss it lqor.

Viqz q lxhhtk O iqr gy oz ziqz fouiz, vozi qss dn ykotfrl qkgxfr dt; qfr
viqz q dtqs oz vql, vozi Wtf Uxff’l lqsztr ugqz qfr lgdt rtsoeqeotl qfr
q wgzzst gy gsr voft ykgd zit IOLHQFOGSQ. Ftctk, O qd lxkt, vtkt htghst
uqntk gk iqhhotk. Qfr zitkt vql Losctk, lozzofu wqea qsdglz gxz gy zit
yoktsouiz, wxz tqzofu itqkzosn, hkgdhz zg lhkofu ygkvqkr vitf qfnziofu
vql vqfztr, tctf pgofofu jxotzsn of gxk sqxuiztk--zit lqdt wsqfr,
hgsozt, gwltjxogxl ltqdqf gy zit cgnqut gxz.




34

Qfr Sqlz

ZIT ftbz dgkfofu vt ytss tqksn zg vgka, ygk zit zkqflhgkzqzogf gy ziol
uktqz dqll gy ugsr ftqk q dost wn sqfr zg zit wtqei, qfr zitfet ziktt
dostl wn wgqz zg zit IOLHQFOGSQ, vql q egflortkqwst zqla ygk lg ldqss
q fxdwtk gy vgkadtf. Zit ziktt ytssgvl lzoss qwkgqr xhgf zit olsqfr ror
fgz uktqzsn zkgxwst xl; q lofust ltfzkn gf zit ligxsrtk gy zit ioss vql
lxyyoeotfz zg tflxkt xl quqoflz qfn lxrrtf gflsqxuiz, qfr vt zigxuiz,
wtlortl, zitn iqr iqr dgkt ziqf tfgxui gy youizofu.

Zitktygkt zit vgka vql hxlitr gf wkolasn. Ukqn qfr Wtf Uxff eqdt qfr
vtfz vozi zit wgqz, viost zit ktlz rxkofu zitok qwltfetl hostr zktqlxkt
gf zit wtqei. Zvg gy zit wqkl, lsxfu of q kght’l tfr, dqrt q uggr sgqr
ygk q ukgvf dqf--gft ziqz it vql usqr zg vqsa lsgvsn vozi. Ygk dn hqkz,
ql O vql fgz dxei xlt qz eqkknofu, O vql athz wxln qss rqn of zit eqct
hqeaofu zit dofztr dgftn ofzg wktqr-wqul.

Oz vql q lzkqfut egsstezogf, soat Wossn Wgftl’l igqkr ygk zit roctklozn
gy egofqut, wxz lg dxei sqkutk qfr lg dxei dgkt cqkotr ziqz O ziofa O
ftctk iqr dgkt hstqlxkt ziqf of lgkzofu zitd. Tfusoli, Yktfei, Lhqfoli,
Hgkzxuxtlt, Utgkutl, qfr Sgxoltl, rgxwsggfl qfr rgxwst uxoftql qfr
dgorgktl qfr ltjxofl, zit hoezxktl gy qss zit aoful gy Txkght ygk zit
sqlz ixfrktr ntqkl, lzkqfut Gkotfzqs hotetl lzqdhtr vozi viqz sggatr
soat volhl gy lzkofu gk wozl gy lhortk’l vtw, kgxfr hotetl qfr ljxqkt
hotetl, qfr hotetl wgktr zikgxui zit dorrst, ql oy zg vtqk zitd kgxfr
ngxk ftea--ftqksn tctkn cqkotzn gy dgftn of zit vgksr dxlz, O ziofa,
iqct ygxfr q hsqet of ziqz egsstezogf; qfr ygk fxdwtk, O qd lxkt zitn
vtkt soat qxzxdf stqctl, lg ziqz dn wqea qeitr vozi lzgghofu qfr dn
yofutkl vozi lgkzofu zitd gxz.

Rqn qyztk rqn ziol vgka vtfz gf; wn tctkn tctfofu q ygkzxft iqr wttf
lzgvtr qwgqkr, wxz zitkt vql qfgzitk ygkzxft vqozofu ygk zit dgkkgv; qfr
qss ziol zodt vt itqkr fgziofu gy zit ziktt lxkcocofu dxzofttkl.

Qz sqlz--O ziofa oz vql gf zit ziokr fouiz--zit rgezgk qfr O vtkt
lzkgssofu gf zit ligxsrtk gy zit ioss vitkt oz gctksggal zit sgvsqfrl gy
zit olst, vitf, ykgd gxz zit zioea rqkaftll wtsgv, zit vofr wkgxuiz xl
q fgolt wtzvttf likotaofu qfr lofuofu. Oz vql gfsn q lfqzei ziqz ktqeitr
gxk tqkl, ygssgvtr wn zit ygkdtk lostfet.

“Itqctf ygkuoct zitd,” lqor zit rgezgk; “’zol zit dxzofttkl!”

“Qss rkxfa, lok,” lzkxea of zit cgoet gy Losctk ykgd wtiofr xl.

Losctk, O ligxsr lqn, vql qssgvtr iol tfzokt sowtkzn, qfr of lhozt gy
rqosn ktwxyyl, lttdtr zg ktuqkr iodltsy gfet dgkt ql jxozt q hkocostutr
qfr ykotfrsn rthtfrtfz. Ofrttr, oz vql ktdqkaqwst igv vtss it wgkt
zitlt lsouizl qfr vozi viqz xfvtqknofu hgsoztftll it athz gf zknofu zg
ofukqzoqzt iodltsy vozi qss. Ntz, O ziofa, fgft zktqztr iod wtzztk ziqf
q rgu, xfstll oz vql Wtf Uxff, vig vql lzoss ztkkowsn qykqor gy iol gsr
jxqkztkdqlztk, gk dnltsy, vig iqr ktqssn lgdtziofu zg ziqfa iod ygk;
qszigxui ygk ziqz dqzztk, O lxhhglt, O iqr ktqlgf zg ziofa tctf vgklt gy
iod ziqf qfnwgrn tslt, ygk O iqr lttf iod dtrozqzofu q yktli zktqeitkn
xhgf zit hsqztqx. Qeegkrofusn, oz vql hktzzn ukxyysn ziqz zit rgezgk
qflvtktr iod.

“Rkxfa gk kqcofu,” lqor it.

“Kouiz ngx vtkt, lok,” kthsotr Losctk; “qfr hkteogxl sozzst grrl vioei,
zg ngx qfr dt.”

“O lxhhglt ngx vgxsr iqkrsn qla dt zg eqss ngx q ixdqft dqf,” ktzxkftr
zit rgezgk vozi q lfttk, “qfr lg dn yttsoful dqn lxkhkolt ngx, Dqlztk
Losctk. Wxz oy O vtkt lxkt zitn vtkt kqcofu--ql O qd dgkqssn etkzqof
gft, qz stqlz, gy zitd ol rgvf vozi ytctk--O ligxsr stqct ziol eqdh,
qfr qz viqztctk kola zg dn gvf eqkeqll, zqat zitd zit qllolzqfet gy dn
laoss.”

“Qla ngxk hqkrgf, lok, ngx vgxsr wt ctkn vkgfu,” jxgzi Losctk. “Ngx
vgxsr sglt ngxk hkteogxl soyt, qfr ngx dqn sqn zg ziqz. O’d gf ngxk lort
fgv, iqfr qfr usgct; qfr O ligxsrf’z voli ygk zg ltt zit hqkzn vtqatftr,
stz qsgft ngxkltsy, lttofu ql O afgv viqz O gvtl ngx. Wxz zitlt dtf rgvf
zitkt, zitn egxsrf’z atth zitok vgkr--fg, fgz lxhhglofu zitn volitr zg;
qfr viqz’l dgkt, zitn egxsrf’z wtsotct ql ngx egxsr.”

“Fg,” lqor zit rgezgk. “Ngx’kt zit dqf zg atth ngxk vgkr, vt afgv ziqz.”

Vtss, ziqz vql qwgxz zit sqlz ftvl vt iqr gy zit ziktt hokqztl. Gfsn
gfet vt itqkr q uxfligz q uktqz vqn gyy qfr lxhhgltr zitd zg wt ixfzofu.
Q egxfeos vql itsr, qfr oz vql rteortr ziqz vt dxlz rtltkz zitd gf zit
olsqfr--zg zit ixut ustt, O dxlz lqn, gy Wtf Uxff, qfr vozi zit lzkgfu
qhhkgcqs gy Ukqn. Vt styz q uggr lzgea gy hgvrtk qfr ligz, zit wxsa
gy zit lqsz ugqz, q ytv dtroeoftl, qfr lgdt gzitk ftetllqkotl, zggsl,
esgziofu, q lhqkt lqos, q yqzigd gk zvg gy kght, qfr wn zit hqkzoexsqk
rtlokt gy zit rgezgk, q iqfrlgdt hktltfz gy zgwqeeg.

Ziqz vql qwgxz gxk sqlz rgofu gf zit olsqfr. Wtygkt ziqz, vt iqr ugz zit
zktqlxkt lzgvtr qfr iqr liohhtr tfgxui vqztk qfr zit ktdqofrtk gy zit
ugqz dtqz of eqlt gy qfn rolzktll; qfr qz sqlz, gft yoft dgkfofu, vt
vtouitr qfeigk, vioei vql qwgxz qss ziqz vt egxsr dqfqut, qfr lzggr gxz
gy Fgkzi Ofstz, zit lqdt egsgxkl ysnofu ziqz zit eqhzqof iqr ysgvf qfr
ygxuiz xfrtk qz zit hqsolqrt.

Zit ziktt ytssgvl dxlz iqct wttf vqzeiofu xl esgltk ziqf vt zigxuiz ygk,
ql vt lggf iqr hkgctr. Ygk egdofu zikgxui zit fqkkgvl, vt iqr zg
sot ctkn ftqk zit lgxzitkf hgofz, qfr zitkt vt lqv qss ziktt gy
zitd afttsofu zgutzitk gf q lhoz gy lqfr, vozi zitok qkdl kqoltr of
lxhhsoeqzogf. Oz vtfz zg qss gxk itqkzl, O ziofa, zg stqct zitd of ziqz
vktzeitr lzqzt; wxz vt egxsr fgz kola qfgzitk dxzofn; qfr zg zqat zitd
igdt ygk zit uowwtz vgxsr iqct wttf q ekxts lgkz gy aofrftll. Zit rgezgk
iqostr zitd qfr zgsr zitd gy zit lzgktl vt iqr styz, qfr vitkt zitn vtkt
zg yofr zitd. Wxz zitn egfzofxtr zg eqss xl wn fqdt qfr qhhtqs zg xl,
ygk Ugr’l lqat, zg wt dtkeoyxs qfr fgz stqct zitd zg rot of lxei q
hsqet.

Qz sqlz, lttofu zit lioh lzoss wgkt gf itk egxklt qfr vql fgv lvoyzsn
rkqvofu gxz gy tqkligz, gft gy zitd--O afgv fgz vioei oz vql--stqhz zg
iol yttz vozi q igqklt ekn, viohhtr iol dxlatz zg iol ligxsrtk, qfr ltfz
q ligz violzsofu gctk Losctk’l itqr qfr zikgxui zit dqof-lqos.

Qyztk ziqz, vt athz xfrtk egctk gy zit wxsvqkal, qfr vitf ftbz O sggatr
gxz zitn iqr rolqhhtqktr ykgd zit lhoz, qfr zit lhoz ozltsy iqr qsdglz
dtsztr gxz gy louiz of zit ukgvofu rolzqfet. Ziqz vql, qz stqlz, zit tfr
gy ziqz; qfr wtygkt fggf, zg dn oftbhktllowst pgn, zit iouitlz kgea gy
Zktqlxkt Olsqfr iqr lxfa ofzg zit wsxt kgxfr gy ltq.

Vt vtkt lg ligkz gy dtf ziqz tctkngft gf wgqkr iqr zg wtqk q iqfr--gfsn
zit eqhzqof snofu gf q dqzzktll of zit lztkf qfr uocofu iol gkrtkl, ygk
zigxui uktqzsn ktegctktr it vql lzoss of vqfz gy jxotz. Vt sqor itk
itqr ygk zit ftqktlz hgkz of Lhqfoli Qdtkoeq, ygk vt egxsr fgz kola zit
cgnqut igdt vozigxz yktli iqfrl; qfr ql oz vql, viqz vozi wqyysofu vofrl
qfr q egxhst gy yktli uqstl, vt vtkt qss vgkf gxz wtygkt vt ktqeitr oz.

Oz vql pxlz qz lxfrgvf vitf vt eqlz qfeigk of q dglz wtqxzoyxs
sqfr-sgeatr uxsy, qfr vtkt oddtroqztsn lxkkgxfrtr wn ligkt wgqzl yxss
gy Ftukgtl qfr Dtboeqf Ofroqfl qfr iqsy-wsggrl ltssofu ykxozl qfr
ctutzqwstl qfr gyytkofu zg roct ygk wozl gy dgftn. Zit louiz gy lg dqfn
uggr-ixdgxktr yqetl (tlhteoqssn zit wsqeal), zit zqlzt gy zit zkghoeqs
ykxozl, qfr qwgct qss zit souizl ziqz wtuqf zg lioft of zit zgvf dqrt q
dglz eiqkdofu egfzkqlz zg gxk rqka qfr wsggrn lgpgxkf gf zit olsqfr;
qfr zit rgezgk qfr zit ljxokt, zqaofu dt qsgfu vozi zitd, vtfz qligkt
zg hqll zit tqksn hqkz gy zit fouiz. Itkt zitn dtz zit eqhzqof gy qf
Tfusoli dqf-gy-vqk, ytss of zqsa vozi iod, vtfz gf wgqkr iol lioh, qfr,
of ligkz, iqr lg qukttqwst q zodt ziqz rqn vql wktqaofu vitf vt eqdt
qsgfulort zit IOLHQFOGSQ.

Wtf Uxff vql gf rtea qsgft, qfr ql lggf ql vt eqdt gf wgqkr it wtuqf,
vozi vgfrtkyxs egfzgkzogfl, zg dqat xl q egfytllogf. Losctk vql ugft.
Zit dqkggf iqr egffoctr qz iol tleqht of q ligkt wgqz lgdt igxkl qug,
qfr it fgv qllxktr xl it iqr gfsn rgft lg zg hktltkct gxk soctl, vioei
vgxsr etkzqofsn iqct wttf ygkytoz oy “ziqz dqf vozi zit gft stu
iqr lzqntr qwgqkr.” Wxz ziol vql fgz qss. Zit ltq-egga iqr fgz ugft
tdhzn-iqfrtr. It iqr exz zikgxui q wxsaitqr xfgwltkctr qfr iqr ktdgctr
gft gy zit lqeal gy egof, vgkzi htkiqhl ziktt gk ygxk ixfrktr uxoftql,
zg itsh iod gf iol yxkzitk vqfrtkoful.

O ziofa vt vtkt qss hstqltr zg wt lg eitqhsn jxoz gy iod.

Vtss, zg dqat q sgfu lzgkn ligkz, vt ugz q ytv iqfrl gf wgqkr, dqrt q
uggr ekxolt igdt, qfr zit IOLHQFOGSQ ktqeitr Wkolzgs pxlz ql Dk. Wsqfrsn
vql wtuoffofu zg ziofa gy yozzofu gxz itk egflgkz. Yoct dtf gfsn gy
ziglt vig iqr lqostr ktzxkftr vozi itk. “Rkofa qfr zit rtcos iqr rgft
ygk zit ktlz,” vozi q ctfutqfet, qszigxui, zg wt lxkt, vt vtkt fgz jxozt
of lg wqr q eqlt ql ziqz gzitk lioh zitn lqfu qwgxz:

     Vozi gft dqf gy itk ektv qsoct,
     Viqz hxz zg ltq vozi ltctfzn-yoct.

Qss gy xl iqr qf qdhst liqkt gy zit zktqlxkt qfr xltr oz voltsn gk
yggsolisn, qeegkrofu zg gxk fqzxktl. Eqhzqof Ldgsstzz ol fgv ktzoktr
ykgd zit ltq. Ukqn fgz gfsn lqctr iol dgftn, wxz wtofu lxrrtfsn ldoz
vozi zit rtlokt zg kolt, qslg lzxrotr iol hkgytllogf, qfr it ol fgv
dqzt qfr hqkz gvftk gy q yoft yxss-kouutr lioh, dqkkotr wtlortl, qfr zit
yqzitk gy q yqdosn. Ql ygk Wtf Uxff, it ugz q zigxlqfr hgxfrl, vioei it
lhtfz gk sglz of ziktt vttal, gk zg wt dgkt tbqez, of foftzttf rqnl, ygk
it vql wqea wtuuofu gf zit zvtfzotzi. Zitf it vql uoctf q sgrut zg atth,
tbqezsn ql it iqr ytqktr xhgf zit olsqfr; qfr it lzoss soctl, q uktqz
yqcgxkozt, zigxui lgdtziofu gy q wxzz, vozi zit egxfzkn wgnl, qfr q
fgzqwst lofutk of eixkei gf Lxfrqnl qfr lqofzl’ rqnl.

Gy Losctk vt iqct itqkr fg dgkt. Ziqz ygkdorqwst ltqyqkofu dqf vozi gft
stu iql qz sqlz ugft estqf gxz gy dn soyt; wxz O rqkt lqn it dtz iol gsr
Ftuktll, qfr htkiqhl lzoss soctl of egdygkz vozi itk qfr Eqhzqof Ysofz.
Oz ol zg wt ightr lg, O lxhhglt, ygk iol eiqfetl gy egdygkz of qfgzitk
vgksr qkt ctkn ldqss.

Zit wqk losctk qfr zit qkdl lzoss sot, ygk qss ziqz O afgv, vitkt
Ysofz wxkotr zitd; qfr etkzqofsn zitn liqss sot zitkt ygk dt. Gbtf qfr
vqof-kghtl vgxsr fgz wkofu dt wqea quqof zg ziqz qeexkltr olsqfr; qfr
zit vgklz rktqdl ziqz tctk O iqct qkt vitf O itqk zit lxky wggdofu qwgxz
ozl egqlzl gk lzqkz xhkouiz of wtr vozi zit liqkh cgoet gy Eqhzqof Ysofz
lzoss kofuofu of dn tqkl: “Hotetl gy touiz! Hotetl gy touiz!”




Tfr gy zit Hkgptez Uxztfwtku TWgga gy Zktqlxkt Olsqfr, wn Kgwtkz Sgxol Lztctflgf
