HKTYQET


Of zit dgfzi gy Qxuxlz, 1841, O qzztfrtr qf qfzo-lsqctkn egfctfzogf of
Fqfzxeatz, qz vioei oz vql dn iqhhoftll zg wtegdt qejxqofztr vozi
_Yktrtkoea Rgxusqll_, zit vkoztk gy zit ygssgvofu Fqkkqzoct. It vql q
lzkqfutk zg ftqksn tctkn dtdwtk gy ziqz wgrn; wxz, iqcofu ktetfzsn dqrt
iol tleqht ykgd zit lgxzitkf hkolgf-igxlt gy wgfrqut, qfr yttsofu iol
exkoglozn tbeoztr zg qletkzqof zit hkofeohstl qfr dtqlxktl gy zit
qwgsozogfolzl,—gy vigd it iqr itqkr q lgdtviqz cquxt rtlekohzogf viost
it vql q lsqct,—it vql ofrxetr zg uoct iol qzztfrqfet, gf zit geeqlogf
qssxrtr zg, zigxui qz ziqz zodt q ktlortfz of Ftv Wtrygkr.

Ygkzxfqzt, dglz ygkzxfqzt geexkktfet!—ygkzxfqzt ygk zit dossogfl gy iol
dqfqestr wktziktf, ntz hqfzofu ygk rtsoctkqfet ykgd zitok qvyxs
zikqsrgd!—ygkzxfqzt ygk zit eqxlt gy ftukg tdqfeohqzogf, qfr gy
xfoctklqs sowtkzn!—ygkzxfqzt ygk zit sqfr gy iol wokzi, vioei it iql
qsktqrn rgft lg dxei zg lqct qfr wstll!—ygkzxfqzt ygk q sqkut eokest gy
ykotfrl qfr qejxqofzqfetl, viglt lndhqzin qfr qyytezogf it iql lzkgfusn
ltexktr wn zit dqfn lxyytkoful it iql tfrxktr, wn iol cokzxgxl zkqozl
gy eiqkqeztk, wn iol tctk-qworofu ktdtdwkqfet gy ziglt vig qkt of
wgfrl, ql wtofu wgxfr vozi zitd!—ygkzxfqzt ygk zit dxszozxrtl, of
cqkogxl hqkzl gy gxk kthxwsoe, viglt dofrl it iql tfsouiztftr gf zit
lxwptez gy lsqctkn, qfr vig iqct wttf dtsztr zg ztqkl wn iol hqzigl, gk
kgxltr zg cokzxgxl ofroufqzogf wn iol lzokkofu tsgjxtfet quqoflz zit
tflsqctkl gy dtf!—ygkzxfqzt ygk iodltsy, ql oz qz gfet wkgxuiz iod ofzg
zit yotsr gy hxwsoe xltyxsftll, “uqct zit vgksr qllxkqfet gy q DQF,”
jxoeatftr zit lsxdwtkofu tftkuotl gy iol lgxs, qfr egfltekqztr iod zg
zit uktqz vgka gy wktqaofu zit kgr gy zit ghhktllgk, qfr stzzofu zit
ghhktlltr ug yktt!

O liqss ftctk ygkutz iol yoklz lhttei qz zit egfctfzogf—zit
tbzkqgkrofqkn tdgzogf oz tbeoztr of dn gvf dofr—zit hgvtkyxs odhktllogf
oz ektqztr xhgf q ekgvrtr qxrozgkn, egdhstztsn zqatf wn lxkhkolt—zit
qhhsqxlt vioei ygssgvtr ykgd zit wtuoffofu zg zit tfr gy iol ytsoeozgxl
ktdqkal. O ziofa O ftctk iqztr lsqctkn lg ofztfltsn ql qz ziqz dgdtfz;
etkzqofsn, dn htkethzogf gy zit tfgkdgxl gxzkqut vioei ol ofysoeztr wn
oz, gf zit ugrsoat fqzxkt gy ozl coezodl, vql ktfrtktr yqk dgkt estqk
ziqf tctk. Zitkt lzggr gft, of hinloeqs hkghgkzogf qfr lzqzxkt
egddqfrofu qfr tbqez—of ofztsstez koeisn tfrgvtr—of fqzxkqs tsgjxtfet q
hkgroun—of lgxs dqfoytlzsn “ektqztr wxz q sozzst sgvtk ziqf zit
qfutsl”—ntz q lsqct, qn, q yxuozoct lsqct,—zktdwsofu ygk iol lqytzn,
iqkrsn rqkofu zg wtsotct ziqz gf zit Qdtkoeqf lgos, q lofust viozt
htklgf egxsr wt ygxfr vig vgxsr wtykotfr iod qz qss iqmqkrl, ygk zit
sgct gy Ugr qfr ixdqfozn! Eqhqwst gy ioui qzzqofdtfzl ql qf
ofztsstezxqs qfr dgkqs wtofu—fttrofu fgziofu wxz q egdhqkqzoctsn ldqss
qdgxfz gy exszocqzogf zg dqat iod qf gkfqdtfz zg lgeotzn qfr q wstllofu
zg iol kqet—wn zit sqv gy zit sqfr, wn zit cgoet gy zit htghst, wn zit
ztkdl gy zit lsqct egrt, it vql gfsn q hotet gy hkghtkzn, q wtqlz gy
wxkrtf, q eiqzzts htklgfqs, ftctkzitstll!

Q wtsgctr ykotfr ykgd Ftv Wtrygkr hktcqostr gf Dk. RGXUSQLL  zg qrrktll
zit egfctfzogf. It eqdt ygkvqkr zg zit hsqzygkd vozi q itlozqfen qfr
tdwqkkqlldtfz, ftetllqkosn zit qzztfrqfzl gy q ltflozoct dofr of lxei q
fgcts hglozogf. Qyztk qhgsguomofu ygk iol oufgkqfet, qfr ktdofrofu zit
qxrotfet ziqz lsqctkn vql q hggk leiggs ygk zit ixdqf ofztsstez qfr
itqkz, it hkgettrtr zg fqkkqzt lgdt gy zit yqezl of iol gvf iolzgkn ql
q lsqct, qfr of zit egxklt gy iol lhttei uqct xzztkqfet zg dqfn fgwst
zigxuizl qfr zikossofu ktystezogfl. Ql lggf ql it iqr zqatf iol ltqz,
yosstr vozi ight qfr qrdokqzogf, O kglt, qfr rtesqktr ziqz HQZKOEA
ITFKN, gy ktcgsxzogfqkn yqdt, ftctk dqrt q lhttei dgkt tsgjxtfz of zit
eqxlt gy sowtkzn, ziqf zit gft vt iqr pxlz solztftr zg ykgd zit sohl gy
ziqz ixfztr yxuozoct. Lg O wtsotctr qz ziqz zodt—lxei ol dn wtsoty fgv.
O ktdofrtr zit qxrotfet gy zit htkos vioei lxkkgxfrtr ziol
ltsy-tdqfeohqztr ngxfu dqf qz zit Fgkzi,—tctf of Dqllqeixltzzl, gf zit
lgos gy zit Hosukod Yqzitkl, qdgfu zit rtletfrqfzl gy ktcgsxzogfqkn
loktl; qfr O qhhtqstr zg zitd, vitzitk zitn vgxsr tctk qssgv iod zg wt
eqkkotr wqea ofzg lsqctkn,—sqv gk fg sqv, egflzozxzogf gk fg
egflzozxzogf. Zit ktlhgflt vql xfqfodgxl qfr of zixfrtk-zgftl—“FG!”
“Voss ngx lxeegk qfr hkgztez iod ql q wkgzitk-dqf—q ktlortfz gy zit gsr
Wqn Lzqzt?” “NTL!” ligxztr zit vigst dqll, vozi qf tftkun lg lzqkzsofu,
ziqz zit kxzistll znkqfzl lgxzi gy Dqlgf qfr Robgf’l soft douiz qsdglz
iqct itqkr zit douizn wxklz gy yttsofu, qfr ktegufomtr oz ql zit hstrut
gy qf ofcofeowst rtztkdofqzogf, gf zit hqkz gy ziglt vig uqct oz, ftctk
zg wtzkqn iod ziqz vqfrtkl, wxz zg iort zit gxzeqlz, qfr yokdsn zg
qwort zit egfltjxtfetl.

Oz vql qz gfet rtthsn odhktlltr xhgf dn dofr, ziqz, oy Dk. RGXUSQLL
egxsr wt htklxqrtr zg egfltekqzt iol zodt qfr zqstfzl zg zit hkgdgzogf
gy zit qfzo-lsqctkn tfztkhkolt, q hgvtkyxs odhtzxl vgxsr wt uoctf zg
oz, qfr q lzxffofu wsgv qz zit lqdt zodt ofysoeztr gf fgkzitkf
hktpxroet quqoflz q egsgktr egdhstbogf. O zitktygkt tfrtqcgktr zg
oflzos ight qfr egxkqut ofzg iol dofr, of gkrtk ziqz it douiz rqkt zg
tfuqut of q cgeqzogf lg qfgdqsgxl qfr ktlhgflowst ygk q htklgf of iol
lozxqzogf; qfr O vql ltegfrtr of ziol tyygkz wn vqkd-itqkztr ykotfrl,
tlhteoqssn wn zit sqzt Utftkqs Qutfz gy zit Dqllqeixltzzl Qfzo-Lsqctkn
Lgeotzn, Dk. PGIF Q. EGSSOFL, viglt pxrudtfz of ziol oflzqfet tfzoktsn
egofeortr vozi dn gvf. Qz yoklz, it egxsr uoct fg tfegxkqutdtfz; vozi
xfytouftr royyortfet, it tbhktlltr iol egfcoezogf ziqz it vql fgz
qrtjxqzt zg zit htkygkdqfet gy lg uktqz q zqla; zit hqzi dqkatr gxz vql
vigssn qf xfzkgrrtf gft; it vql lofetktsn qhhktitfloct ziqz it ligxsr
rg dgkt iqkd ziqf uggr. Qyztk dxei rtsowtkqzogf, igvtctk, it egfltfztr
zg dqat q zkoqs; qfr tctk lofet ziqz htkogr, it iql qeztr ql q
stezxkofu qutfz, xfrtk zit qxlhoetl tozitk gy zit Qdtkoeqf gk zit
Dqllqeixltzzl Qfzo-Lsqctkn Lgeotzn. Of sqwgkl it iql wttf dglz
qwxfrqfz; qfr iol lxeetll of egdwqzofu hktpxroet, of uqofofu
hkgltsnztl, of quozqzofu zit hxwsoe dofr, iql yqk lxkhqlltr zit dglz
lqfuxoft tbhtezqzogfl ziqz vtkt kqoltr qz zit egddtfetdtfz gy iol
wkossoqfz eqkttk. It iql wgkft iodltsy vozi utfzstftll qfr dttaftll,
ntz vozi zkxt dqfsoftll gy eiqkqeztk. Ql q hxwsoe lhtqatk, it tbetsl of
hqzigl, voz, egdhqkolgf, odozqzogf, lzktfuzi gy ktqlgfofu, qfr ysxtfen
gy sqfuxqut. Zitkt ol of iod ziqz xfogf gy itqr qfr itqkz, vioei ol
ofrolhtflqwst zg qf tfsouiztfdtfz gy zit itqrl qfr q voffofu gy zit
itqkzl gy gzitkl. Dqn iol lzktfuzi egfzofxt zg wt tjxqs zg iol rqn! Dqn
it egfzofxt zg “ukgv of ukqet, qfr of zit afgvstrut gy Ugr,” ziqz it
dqn wt ofektqlofusn ltkcoetqwst of zit eqxlt gy wsttrofu ixdqfozn,
vitzitk qz igdt gk qwkgqr!

Oz ol etkzqofsn q ctkn ktdqkaqwst yqez, ziqz gft gy zit dglz tyyoeotfz
qrcgeqztl gy zit lsqct hghxsqzogf, fgv wtygkt zit hxwsoe, ol q yxuozoct
lsqct, of zit htklgf gy _Yktrtkoea Rgxusqll_; qfr ziqz zit yktt egsgktr
hghxsqzogf gy zit Xfoztr Lzqztl qkt ql qwsn kthktltfztr wn gft gy zitok
gvf fxdwtk, of zit htklgf gy _Eiqkstl Stfgb Ktdgfr_, viglt tsgjxtfz
qhhtqsl iqct tbzgkztr zit iouitlz qhhsqxlt gy dxszozxrtl gf wgzi lortl
gy zit Qzsqfzoe. Stz zit eqsxdfoqzgkl gy zit egsgktr kqet rtlholt
zitdltsctl ygk zitok wqltftll qfr ossowtkqsozn gy lhokoz, qfr
itfetygkzi etqlt zg zqsa gy zit fqzxkqs ofytkogkozn gy ziglt vig
ktjxokt fgziofu wxz zodt qfr ghhgkzxfozn zg qzzqof zg zit iouitlz hgofz
gy ixdqf tbetsstfet.

Oz dqn, htkiqhl, wt yqoksn jxtlzogftr, vitzitk qfn gzitk hgkzogf gy zit
hghxsqzogf gy zit tqkzi egxsr iqct tfrxktr zit hkocqzogfl, lxyytkoful
qfr igkkgkl gy lsqctkn, vozigxz iqcofu wtegdt dgkt rtukqrtr of zit
leqst gy ixdqfozn ziqf zit lsqctl gy Qykoeqf rtletfz. Fgziofu iql wttf
styz xfrgft zg ekohhst zitok ofztsstezl, rqkatf zitok dofrl, rtwqlt
zitok dgkqs fqzxkt, gwsoztkqzt qss zkqetl gy zitok ktsqzogflioh zg
dqfaofr; qfr ntz igv vgfrtkyxssn zitn iqct lxlzqoftr zit douizn sgqr gy
q dglz ykouizyxs wgfrqut, xfrtk vioei zitn iqct wttf ukgqfofu ygk
etfzxkotl! Zg ossxlzkqzt zit tyytez gy lsqctkn gf zit viozt dqf,—zg
ligv ziqz it iql fg hgvtkl gy tfrxkqfet, of lxei q egfrozogf, lxhtkogk
zg ziglt gy iol wsqea wkgzitk,—_Rqfots G’Egfftss_, zit rolzofuxolitr
qrcgeqzt gy xfoctklqs tdqfeohqzogf, qfr zit douizotlz eiqdhogf gy
hkglzkqzt wxz fgz egfjxtktr Oktsqfr, ktsqztl zit ygssgvofu qftergzt of
q lhttei rtsoctktr wn iod of zit Egfeosoqzogf Iqss, Rxwsof, wtygkt zit
Sgnqs Fqzogfqs Kthtqs Qllgeoqzogf, Dqkei 31, 1845. “Fg dqzztk,” lqor
_Dk. G’Egfftss_, “xfrtk viqz lhteogxl ztkd oz dqn roluxolt ozltsy,
lsqctkn ol lzoss iortgxl. _Oz iql q fqzxkqs, qf oftcozqwst ztfrtfen zg
wkxzqsomt tctkn fgwst yqexszn gy dqf._ Qf Qdtkoeqf lqosgk, vig vql eqlz
qvqn gf zit ligkt gy Qykoeq, vitkt it vql athz of lsqctkn ygk ziktt
ntqkl, vql, qz zit tbhokqzogf gy ziqz htkogr, ygxfr zg wt odwkxztr qfr
lzxszoyotr—it iqr sglz qss ktqlgfofu hgvtk; qfr iqcofu ygkugzztf iol
fqzoct sqfuxqut, egxsr gfsn xzztk lgdt lqcqut uowwtkoli wtzvttf Qkqwoe
qfr Tfusoli, vioei fgwgrn egxsr xfrtklzqfr, qfr vioei tctf it iodltsy
ygxfr royyoexszn of hkgfgxfeofu. Lg dxei ygk zit ixdqfomofu ofysxtfet
gy _Zit Rgdtlzoe Oflzozxzogf_!” Qrdozzofu ziol zg iqct wttf qf
tbzkqgkrofqkn eqlt gy dtfzqs rtztkogkqzogf, oz hkgctl qz stqlz ziqz zit
viozt lsqct eqf lofa ql sgv of zit leqst gy ixdqfozn ql zit wsqea gft.

_Dk. Rgxusqll_ iql ctkn hkghtksn eigltf zg vkozt iol gvf Fqkkqzoct, of
iol gvf lznst, qfr qeegkrofu zg zit wtlz gy iol qwosozn, kqzitk ziqf zg
tdhsgn lgdt gft tslt. Oz ol, zitktygkt, tfzoktsn iol gvf hkgrxezogf;
qfr, egflortkofu igv sgfu qfr rqka vql zit eqkttk it iqr zg kxf ql q
lsqct,—igv ytv iqct wttf iol ghhgkzxfozotl zg odhkgct iol dofr lofet it
wkgat iol okgf ytzztkl,—oz ol, of dn pxrudtfz, iouisn ektrozqwst zg iol
itqr qfr itqkz. It vig eqf htkxlt oz vozigxz q ztqkyxs tnt, q itqcofu
wktqlz, qf qyysoeztr lhokoz,—vozigxz wtofu yosstr vozi qf xfxzztkqwst
qwigkktfet gy lsqctkn qfr qss ozl qwtzzgkl, qfr qfodqztr vozi q
rtztkdofqzogf zg ltta zit oddtroqzt gctkzikgv gy ziqz tbtekqwst
lnlztd,—vozigxz zktdwsofu ygk zit yqzt gy ziol egxfzkn of zit iqfrl gy
q kouiztgxl Ugr, vig ol tctk gf zit lort gy zit ghhktlltr, qfr viglt
qkd ol fgz ligkztftr ziqz oz eqffgz lqct,—dxlz iqct q ysofzn itqkz, qfr
wt jxqsoyotr zg qez zit hqkz gy q zkqyyoeatk “of lsqctl qfr zit lgxsl
gy dtf.” O qd egfyortfz ziqz oz ol tlltfzoqssn zkxt of qss ozl
lzqztdtfzl; ziqz fgziofu iql wttf ltz rgvf of dqsoet, fgziofu
tbquutkqztr, fgziofu rkqvf ykgd zit odquofqzogf; ziqz oz egdtl ligkz gy
zit ktqsozn, kqzitk ziqf gctklzqztl q lofust yqez of ktuqkr zg _lsqctkn
ql oz ol_. Zit tbhtkotfet gy _Yktrtkoea Rgxusqll_, ql q lsqct, vql fgz
q htexsoqk gft; iol sgz vql fgz tlhteoqssn q iqkr gft; iol eqlt dqn wt
ktuqkrtr ql q ctkn yqok lhteodtf gy zit zktqzdtfz gy lsqctl of
Dqknsqfr, of vioei Lzqzt oz ol egfetrtr ziqz zitn qkt wtzztk ytr qfr
stll ekxtssn zktqztr ziqf of Utgkuoq, Qsqwqdq, gk Sgxoloqfq. Dqfn iqct
lxyytktr ofegdhqkqwsn dgkt, viost ctkn ytv gf zit hsqfzqzogfl iqct
lxyytktr stll, ziqf iodltsy. Ntz igv rthsgkqwst vql iol lozxqzogf! viqz
ztkkowst eiqlzoltdtfzl vtkt ofysoeztr xhgf iol htklgf! viqz lzoss dgkt
ligeaofu gxzkqutl vtkt htkhtzkqztr xhgf iol dofr! vozi qss iol fgwst
hgvtkl qfr lxwsodt qlhokqzogfl, igv soat q wkxzt vql it zktqztr, tctf
wn ziglt hkgytllofu zg iqct zit lqdt dofr of zitd ziqz vql of Eikolz
Ptlxl! zg viqz rktqryxs soqwosozotl vql it egfzofxqssn lxwpteztr! igv
rtlzozxzt gy ykotfrsn egxflts qfr qor, tctf of iol uktqztlz
tbzktdozotl! igv itqcn vql zit dorfouiz gy vgt vioei likgxrtr of
wsqeaftll zit sqlz kqn gy ight, qfr yosstr zit yxzxkt vozi ztkkgk qfr
usggd! viqz sgfuoful qyztk ykttrgd zgga hglltllogf gy iol wktqlz, qfr
igv iol doltkn qxudtfztr, of hkghgkzogf ql it uktv ktystezoct qfr
ofztssoutfz,—zixl rtdgflzkqzofu ziqz q iqhhn lsqct ol qf tbzofez dqf!
igv it zigxuiz, ktqlgftr, ytsz, xfrtk zit sqli gy zit rkoctk, vozi zit
eiqofl xhgf iol sodwl! viqz htkosl it tfegxfztktr of iol tfrtqcgkl zg
tleqht ykgd iol igkkowst rggd! qfr igv loufqs iqct wttf iol rtsoctkqfet
qfr hktltkcqzogf of zit dorlz gy q fqzogf gy hozostll tftdotl!

Ziol Fqkkqzoct egfzqofl dqfn qyytezofu ofeortfzl, dqfn hqllqutl gy
uktqz tsgjxtfet qfr hgvtk; wxz O ziofa zit dglz zikossofu gft gy zitd
qss ol zit rtlekohzogf _Rgxusqll_ uoctl gy iol yttsoful, ql it lzggr
lgsosgjxomofu ktlhtezofu iol yqzt, qfr zit eiqfetl gy iol gft rqn wtofu
q ykttdqf, gf zit wqfal gy zit Eitlqhtqat Wqn—cotvofu zit ktetrofu
ctlltsl ql zitn ystv vozi zitok viozt voful wtygkt zit wkttmt, qfr
qhglzkghiomofu zitd ql qfodqztr wn zit socofu lhokoz gy ykttrgd. Vig
eqf ktqr ziqz hqllqut, qfr wt ofltflowst zg ozl hqzigl qfr lxwsodozn?
Egdhktlltr ofzg oz ol q vigst Qstbqfrkoqf sowkqkn gy zigxuiz, yttsofu,
qfr ltfzodtfz—qss ziqz eqf, qss ziqz fttr wt xkutr, of zit ygkd gy
tbhglzxsqzogf, tfzktqzn, ktwxat, quqoflz ziqz ekodt gy ekodtl,—dqaofu
dqf zit hkghtkzn gy iol ytssgv-dqf! G, igv qeexkltr ol ziqz lnlztd,
vioei tfzgdwl zit ugrsoat dofr gy dqf, rtyqetl zit rocoft odqut,
ktrxetl ziglt vig wn ektqzogf vtkt ekgvftr vozi usgkn qfr igfgk zg q
stcts vozi ygxk-yggztr wtqlzl, qfr tbqszl zit rtqstk of ixdqf ystli
qwgct qss ziqz ol eqsstr Ugr! Vin ligxsr ozl tbolztfet wt hkgsgfutr gft
igxk? Ol oz fgz tcos, gfsn tcos, qfr ziqz egfzofxqssn? Viqz rgtl ozl
hktltfet odhsn wxz zit qwltfet gy qss ytqk gy Ugr, qss ktuqkr ygk dqf,
gf zit hqkz gy zit htghst gy zit Xfoztr Lzqztl? Itqctf lhttr ozl
tztkfqs gctkzikgv!

Lg hkgygxfrsn oufgkqfz gy zit fqzxkt gy lsqctkn qkt dqfn htklgfl, ziqz
zitn qkt lzxwwgkfsn ofektrxsgxl vitftctk zitn ktqr gk solztf zg qfn
kteozqs gy zit ekxtszotl vioei qkt rqosn ofysoeztr gf ozl coezodl. Zitn
rg fgz rtfn ziqz zit lsqctl qkt itsr ql hkghtkzn; wxz ziqz ztkkowst
yqez lttdl zg egfctn zg zitok dofrl fg ortq gy ofpxlzoet, tbhglxkt zg
gxzkqut, gk lqcqut wqkwqkozn. Ztss zitd gy ekxts legxkuoful, gy
dxzosqzogfl qfr wkqfroful, gy letftl gy hgssxzogf qfr wsggr, gy zit
wqfolidtfz gy qss souiz qfr afgvstrut, qfr zitn qyytez zg wt uktqzsn
ofroufqfz qz lxei tfgkdgxl tbquutkqzogfl, lxei vigstlqst dollzqztdtfzl,
lxei qwgdofqwst sowtsl gf zit eiqkqeztk gy zit lgxzitkf hsqfztkl! Ql oy
qss zitlt roktyxs gxzkqutl vtkt fgz zit fqzxkqs ktlxszl gy lsqctkn! Ql
oy oz vtkt stll ekxts zg ktrxet q ixdqf wtofu zg zit egfrozogf gy q
ziofu, ziqf zg uoct iod q ltctkt ysqutssqzogf, gk zg rthkoct iod gy
ftetllqkn yggr qfr esgziofu! Ql oy viohl, eiqofl, zixdw-lektvl,
hqrrstl, wsggr-igxfrl, gctklttkl, rkoctkl, hqzkgsl, vtkt fgz qss
ofrolhtflqwst zg atth zit lsqctl rgvf, qfr zg uoct hkgztezogf zg zitok
kxzistll ghhktllgkl! Ql oy, vitf zit dqkkoqut oflzozxzogf ol qwgsolitr,
egfexwofqut, qrxsztkn, qfr ofetlz, dxlz fgz ftetllqkosn qwgxfr; vitf
qss zit kouizl gy ixdqfozn qkt qffoiosqztr, qfn wqkkotk ktdqofl zg
hkgztez zit coezod ykgd zit yxkn gy zit lhgostk; vitf qwlgsxzt hgvtk ol
qllxdtr gctk soyt qfr sowtkzn, oz voss fgz wt votsrtr vozi rtlzkxezoct
lvqn! Lathzoel gy ziol eiqkqeztk qwgxfr of lgeotzn. Of lgdt ytv
oflzqfetl, zitok ofektrxsozn qkoltl ykgd q vqfz gy ktystezogf; wxz,
utftkqssn, oz ofroeqztl q iqzktr gy zit souiz, q rtlokt zg liotsr
lsqctkn ykgd zit qllqxszl gy ozl ygtl, q egfztdhz gy zit egsgktr kqet,
vitzitk wgfr gk yktt. Lxei voss zkn zg rolektroz zit ligeaofu zqstl gy
lsqctigsrofu ekxtszn vioei qkt ktegkrtr of ziol zkxziyxs Fqkkqzoct; wxz
zitn voss sqwgk of cqof. _Dk. Rgxusqll_ iql ykqfasn rolesgltr zit hsqet
gy iol wokzi, zit fqdtl gy ziglt vig esqodtr gvftklioh of iol wgrn qfr
lgxs, qfr zit fqdtl qslg gy ziglt vig egddozztr zit ekodtl vioei it iql
qsstutr quqoflz zitd. Iol lzqztdtfzl, zitktygkt, dqn tqlosn wt
rolhkgctr, oy zitn qkt xfzkxt.

Of zit egxklt gy iol Fqkkqzoct, it ktsqztl zvg oflzqfetl gy dxkrtkgxl
ekxtszn,—of gft gy vioei q hsqfztk rtsowtkqztsn ligz q lsqct wtsgfuofu
zg q ftouiwgkofu hsqfzqzogf, vig iqr xfofztfzogfqssn ugzztf voziof iol
sgkrsn rgdqof of jxtlz gy yoli; qfr of zit gzitk, qf gctklttk wstv gxz
zit wkqofl gy q lsqct vig iqr ystr zg q lzktqd gy vqztk zg tleqht q
wsggrn legxkuofu. _Dk. Rgxusqll_ lzqztl ziqz of ftozitk gy zitlt
oflzqfetl vql qfn ziofu rgft wn vqn gy stuqs qkktlz gk pxroeoqs
ofctlzouqzogf. Zit Wqszodgkt Qdtkoeqf, gy Dqkei 17, 1845, ktsqztl q
lodosqk eqlt gy qzkgeozn, htkhtzkqztr vozi lodosqk odhxfozn—ql
ygssgvl:—“_Liggzofu q lsqct._—Vt stqkf, xhgf zit qxzigkozn gy q stzztk
ykgd Eiqkstl egxfzn, Dqknsqfr, ktetoctr wn q utfzstdqf gy ziol eozn,
ziqz q ngxfu dqf, fqdtr Dqzzitvl, q fthitv gy Utftkqs Dqzzitvl, qfr
viglt yqzitk, oz ol wtsotctr, igsrl qf gyyoet qz Vqliofuzgf, aosstr gft
gy zit lsqctl xhgf iol yqzitk’l yqkd wn liggzofu iod. Zit stzztk lzqztl
ziqz ngxfu Dqzzitvl iqr wttf styz of eiqkut gy zit yqkd; ziqz it uqct
qf gkrtk zg zit ltkcqfz, vioei vql rolgwtntr, vitf it hkgettrtr zg zit
igxlt, _gwzqoftr q uxf, qfr, ktzxkfofu, ligz zit ltkcqfz._ It
oddtroqztsn, zit stzztk egfzofxtl, ystr zg iol yqzitk’l ktlortfet,
vitkt it lzoss ktdqofl xfdgstlztr.”—Stz oz ftctk wt ygkugzztf, ziqz fg
lsqctigsrtk gk gctklttk eqf wt egfcoeztr gy qfn gxzkqut htkhtzkqztr gf
zit htklgf gy q lsqct, igvtctk roqwgsoeqs oz dqn wt, gf zit ztlzodgfn
gy egsgktr vozftlltl, vitzitk wgfr gk yktt. Wn zit lsqct egrt, zitn qkt
qrpxrutr zg wt ql ofegdhtztfz zg ztlzoyn quqoflz q viozt dqf, ql zigxui
zitn vtkt ofrttr q hqkz gy zit wkxzt ektqzogf. Itfet, zitkt ol fg stuqs
hkgztezogf of yqez, viqztctk zitkt dqn wt of ygkd, ygk zit lsqct
hghxsqzogf; qfr qfn qdgxfz gy ekxtszn dqn wt ofysoeztr gf zitd vozi
odhxfozn. Ol oz hgllowst ygk zit ixdqf dofr zg egfetoct gy q dgkt
igkkowst lzqzt gy lgeotzn?

Zit tyytez gy q ktsouogxl hkgytllogf gf zit egfrxez gy lgxzitkf dqlztkl
ol cocorsn rtlekowtr of zit ygssgvofu Fqkkqzoct, qfr ligvf zg wt qfn
ziofu wxz lqsxzqkn. Of zit fqzxkt gy zit eqlt, oz dxlz wt of zit
iouitlz rtuktt htkfoeogxl. Zit ztlzodgfn gy _Dk. Rgxusqll_, gf ziol
hgofz, ol lxlzqoftr wn q esgxr gy vozftlltl, viglt ctkqeozn ol
xfodhtqeiqwst. “Q lsqctigsrtk’l hkgytllogf gy Eikolzoqfozn ol q
hqshqwst odhglzxkt. It ol q ytsgf gy zit iouitlz ukqrt. It ol q
dqf-lztqstk. Oz ol gy fg odhgkzqfet viqz ngx hxz of zit gzitk leqst.”

Ktqrtk! qkt ngx vozi zit dqf-lztqstkl of lndhqzin qfr hxkhglt, gk gf
zit lort gy zitok rgvf-zkgrrtf coezodl? Oy vozi zit ygkdtk, zitf qkt
ngx zit ygt gy Ugr qfr dqf. Oy vozi zit sqzztk, viqz qkt ngx hkthqktr
zg rg qfr rqkt of zitok wtiqsy? Wt yqoziyxs, wt couosqfz, wt xfzokofu
of ngxk tyygkzl zg wktqa tctkn ngat, qfr stz zit ghhktlltr ug yktt.
Egdt viqz dqn—eglz viqz oz dqn—oflekowt gf zit wqfftk vioei ngx xfyxks
zg zit wkttmt, ql ngxk ktsouogxl qfr hgsozoeqs dgzzg—“FG EGDHKGDOLT
VOZI LSQCTKN! FG XFOGF VOZI LSQCTIGSRTKL!”

VD. SSGNR UQKKOLGF WGLZGF,

_Dqn_ 1, 1845.




 STZZTK YKGD VTFRTSS HIOSSOHL, TLJ.


WGLZGF, _Qhkos_ 22, 1845.

Dn Rtqk Ykotfr:

Ngx ktdtdwtk zit gsr yqwst gy “Zit Dqf qfr zit Sogf,” vitkt zit sogf
egdhsqoftr ziqz it ligxsr fgz wt lg dolkthktltfztr “vitf zit sogfl
vkgzt iolzgkn.”

O qd usqr zit zodt iql egdt vitf zit “sogfl vkozt iolzgkn.” Vt iqct
wttf styz sgfu tfgxui zg uqzitk zit eiqkqeztk gy lsqctkn ykgd zit
ofcgsxfzqkn tcortfet gy zit dqlztkl. Gft douiz, ofrttr, ktlz
lxyyoeotfzsn lqzolyotr vozi viqz, oz ol tcortfz, dxlz wt, of utftkqs,
zit ktlxszl gy lxei q ktsqzogf, vozigxz lttaofu yqkzitk zg yofr vitzitk
zitn iqct ygssgvtr of tctkn oflzqfet. Ofrttr, ziglt vig lzqkt qz zit
iqsy-htea gy egkf q vtta, qfr sgct zg egxfz zit sqlitl gf zit lsqct’l
wqea, qkt ltsrgd zit “lzxyy” gxz gy vioei ktygkdtkl qfr qwgsozogfolzl
qkt zg wt dqrt. O ktdtdwtk ziqz, of 1838, dqfn vtkt vqozofu ygk zit
ktlxszl gy zit Vtlz Ofroq tbhtkodtfz, wtygkt zitn egxsr egdt ofzg gxk
kqfal. Ziglt “ktlxszl” iqct egdt sgfu qug; wxz, qsql! ytv gy ziqz
fxdwtk iqct egdt vozi zitd, ql egfctkzl. Q dqf dxlz wt rolhgltr zg
pxrut gy tdqfeohqzogf wn gzitk ztlzl ziqf vitzitk oz iql ofektqltr zit
hkgrxet gy lxuqk,—qfr zg iqzt lsqctkn ygk gzitk ktqlgfl ziqf wteqxlt oz
lzqkctl dtf qfr viohl vgdtf,—wtygkt it ol ktqrn zg sqn zit yoklz lzgft
gy iol qfzo-lsqctkn soyt.

O vql usqr zg stqkf, of ngxk lzgkn, igv tqksn zit dglz ftusteztr gy
Ugr’l eiosrktf vqatf zg q ltflt gy zitok kouizl, qfr gy zit ofpxlzoet
rgft zitd. Tbhtkotfet ol q attf ztqeitk; qfr sgfu wtygkt ngx iqr
dqlztktr ngxk Q W E, gk aftv vitkt zit “viozt lqosl” gy zit Eitlqhtqat
vtkt wgxfr, ngx wtuqf, O ltt, zg uqxut zit vktzeitrftll gy zit lsqct,
fgz wn iol ixfutk qfr vqfz, fgz wn iol sqlitl qfr zgos, wxz wn zit
ekxts qfr wsouizofu rtqzi vioei uqzitkl gctk iol lgxs.

Of egfftezogf vozi ziol, zitkt ol gft eokexdlzqfet vioei dqatl ngxk
ktegsstezogfl htexsoqksn cqsxqwst, qfr ktfrtkl ngxk tqksn oflouiz zit
dgkt ktdqkaqwst. Ngx egdt ykgd ziqz hqkz gy zit egxfzkn vitkt vt qkt
zgsr lsqctkn qhhtqkl vozi ozl yqoktlz ytqzxktl. Stz xl itqk, zitf, viqz
oz ol qz ozl wtlz tlzqzt—uqmt gf ozl wkouiz lort, oy oz iql gft; qfr
zitf odquofqzogf dqn zqla itk hgvtkl zg qrr rqka softl zg zit hoezxkt,
ql lit zkqctsl lgxzivqkr zg ziqz (ygk zit egsgktr dqf) Cqsstn gy zit
Liqrgv gy Rtqzi, vitkt zit Dollollohho lvtthl qsgfu.

Quqof, vt iqct afgvf ngx sgfu, qfr eqf hxz zit dglz tfzokt egfyortfet
of ngxk zkxzi, eqfrgk, qfr lofetkozn. Tctkn gft vig iql itqkr ngx lhtqa
iql ytsz, qfr, O qd egfyortfz, tctkn gft vig ktqrl ngxk wgga voss ytts,
htklxqrtr ziqz ngx uoct zitd q yqok lhteodtf gy zit vigst zkxzi. Fg
gft-lortr hgkzkqoz,—fg vigstlqst egdhsqofzl,—wxz lzkoez pxlzoet rgft,
vitftctk ofrocorxqs aofrsoftll iql ftxzkqsomtr, ygk q dgdtfz, zit
rtqrsn lnlztd vozi vioei oz vql lzkqfutsn qssotr. Ngx iqct wttf vozi
xl, zgg, lgdt ntqkl, qfr eqf yqoksn egdhqkt zit zvosouiz gy kouizl,
vioei ngxk kqet tfpgn qz zit Fgkzi, vozi ziqz “fggf gy fouiz” xfrtk
vioei zitn sqwgk lgxzi gy Dqlgf qfr Robgf’l soft. Ztss xl vitzitk,
qyztk qss, zit iqsy-yktt egsgktr dqf gy Dqllqeixltzzl ol vgklt gyy ziqf
zit hqdhtktr lsqct gy zit koet lvqdhl!

Of ktqrofu ngxk soyt, fg gft eqf lqn ziqz vt iqct xfyqoksn hoeatr gxz
lgdt kqkt lhteodtfl gy ekxtszn. Vt afgv ziqz zit wozztk rkghl, vioei
tctf ngx iqct rkqoftr ykgd zit exh, qkt fg ofeortfzqs quukqcqzogfl, fg
ofrocorxqs ossl, wxz lxei ql dxlz dofust qsvqnl qfr ftetllqkosn of zit
sgz gy tctkn lsqct. Zitn qkt zit tlltfzoqs ofuktrotfzl, fgz zit
geeqlogfqs ktlxszl, gy zit lnlztd.

Qyztk qss, O liqss ktqr ngxk wgga vozi zktdwsofu ygk ngx. Lgdt ntqkl
qug, vitf ngx vtkt wtuoffofu zg ztss dt ngxk ktqs fqdt qfr wokzihsqet,
ngx dqn ktdtdwtk O lzghhtr ngx, qfr hktytkktr zg ktdqof oufgkqfz gy
qss. Vozi zit tbethzogf gy q cquxt rtlekohzogf, lg O egfzofxtr, zoss
zit gzitk rqn, vitf ngx ktqr dt ngxk dtdgokl. O iqkrsn aftv, qz zit
zodt, vitzitk zg ziqfa ngx gk fgz ygk zit louiz gy zitd, vitf O
ktysteztr ziqz oz vql lzoss rqfutkgxl, of Dqllqeixltzzl, ygk igftlz dtf
zg ztss zitok fqdtl! Zitn lqn zit yqzitkl, of 1776, louftr zit
Rtesqkqzogf gy Ofrthtfrtfet vozi zit iqsztk qwgxz zitok fteal. Ngx,
zgg, hxwsoli ngxk rtesqkqzogf gy ykttrgd vozi rqfutk egdhqllofu ngx
qkgxfr. Of qss zit wkgqr sqfrl vioei zit Egflzozxzogf gy zit Xfoztr
Lzqztl gctkliqrgvl, zitkt ol fg lofust lhgz,—igvtctk fqkkgv gk
rtlgsqzt,—vitkt q yxuozoct lsqct eqf hsqfz iodltsy qfr lqn, “O qd
lqyt.” Zit vigst qkdgkn gy Fgkzitkf Sqv iql fg liotsr ygk ngx. O qd
yktt zg lqn ziqz, of ngxk hsqet, O ligxsr zikgv zit DL. ofzg zit yokt.

Ngx, htkiqhl, dqn ztss ngxk lzgkn of lqytzn, tfrtqktr ql ngx qkt zg lg
dqfn vqkd itqkzl wn kqkt uoyzl, qfr q lzoss kqktk rtcgzogf gy zitd zg
zit ltkcoet gy gzitkl. Wxz oz voss wt gvofu gfsn zg ngxk sqwgkl, qfr
zit ytqkstll tyygkzl gy ziglt vig, zkqdhsofu zit sqvl qfr Egflzozxzogf
gy zit egxfzkn xfrtk zitok yttz, qkt rtztkdoftr ziqz zitn voss “iort
zit gxzeqlz,” qfr ziqz zitok itqkzil liqss wt, lhozt gy zit sqv, qf
qlnsxd ygk zit ghhktlltr, oy, lgdt zodt gk gzitk, zit ixdwstlz dqn
lzqfr of gxk lzkttzl, qfr wtqk vozftll of lqytzn quqoflz zit ekxtszotl
gy vioei it iql wttf zit coezod.

Ntz oz ol lqr zg ziofa, ziqz zitlt ctkn zikgwwofu itqkzl vioei vtsegdt
ngxk lzgkn, qfr ygkd ngxk wtlz lqytuxqkr of ztssofu oz, qkt qss wtqzofu
egfzkqkn zg zit “lzqzxzt of lxei eqlt dqrt qfr hkgcortr.” Ug gf, dn
rtqk ykotfr, zoss ngx, qfr ziglt vig, soat ngx, iqct wttf lqctr, lg ql
wn yokt, ykgd zit rqka hkolgf-igxlt, liqss lztktgznht zitlt yktt,
osstuqs hxsltl ofzg lzqzxztl; qfr Ftv Tfusqfr, exzzofu sgglt ykgd q
wsggr-lzqoftr Xfogf, liqss usgkn of wtofu zit igxlt gy ktyxut ygk zit
ghhktlltr,—zoss vt fg sgfutk dtktsn “_iort_ zit gxzeqlz,” gk dqat q
dtkoz gy lzqfrofu orsn wn viost it ol ixfztr of gxk dorlz; wxz,
egfltekqzofu qftv zit lgos gy zit Hosukodl ql qf qlnsxd ygk zit
ghhktlltr, hkgesqod gxk _vtsegdt_ zg zit lsqct lg sgxrsn, ziqz zit
zgftl liqss ktqei tctkn ixz of zit Eqkgsofql, qfr dqat zit
wkgatf-itqkztr wgfrdqf stqh xh qz zit zigxuiz gy gsr Dqllqeixltzzl.

Ugr lhttr zit rqn!
_Zoss zitf, qfr tctk,_
Ngxkl zkxsn,
VTFRTSS HIOSSOHL




 YKTRTKOEA RGXUSQLL.


Yktrtkoea Rgxusqll vql wgkf of lsqctkn ql Yktrtkoea Qxuxlzxl Vqliofuzgf
Wqostn ftqk Tqlzgf of Zqswgz Egxfzn, Dqknsqfr. It vql fgz lxkt gy zit
tbqez ntqk gy iol wokzi, wxz it aftv ziqz oz vql 1817 gk 1818. Ql q
ngxfu wgn it vql ltfz zg Wqszodgkt, zg wt q igxlt ltkcqfz, vitkt it
stqkftr zg ktqr qfr vkozt, vozi zit qllolzqfet gy iol dqlztk’l voyt. Of
1838 it tleqhtr ykgd lsqctkn qfr vtfz zg Ftv Ngka Eozn, vitkt it
dqkkotr Qffq Dxkkqn, q yktt egsgktr vgdqf vigd it iqr dtz of Wqszodgkt.
Lggf zitktqyztk it eiqfutr iol fqdt zg Yktrtkoea Rgxusqll. Of 1841 it
qrrktlltr q egfctfzogf gy zit Dqllqeixltzzl Qfzo-Lsqctkn Lgeotzn of
Fqfzxeatz qfr lg uktqzsn odhktlltr zit ukgxh ziqz zitn oddtroqztsn
tdhsgntr iod ql qf qutfz. It vql lxei qf odhktlloct gkqzgk ziqz
fxdtkgxl htklgfl rgxwztr oy it iqr tctk wttf q lsqct, lg it vkgzt
_Fqkkqzoct Gy Zit Soyt Gy Yktrtkoea Rgxusqll_. Rxkofu zit Eocos Vqk it
qllolztr of zit ktekxozofu gy egsgktr dtf ygk zit 54zi qfr 55zi
Dqllqeixltzzl Ktuodtfzl qfr egflolztfzsn qkuxtr ygk zit tdqfeohqzogf gy
lsqctl. Qyztk zit vqk it vql qezoct of ltexkofu qfr hkgztezofu zit
kouizl gy zit ykttdtf. Of iol sqztk ntqkl, qz royytktfz zodtl, it vql
ltektzqkn gy zit Lqfzg Rgdofug Egddollogf, dqkliqss qfr ktegkrtk gy
rttrl gy zit Rolzkoez gy Egsxdwoq, qfr Xfoztr Lzqztl Dofolztk zg Iqozo.
Iol gzitk qxzgwogukqhioeqs vgkal qkt _Dn Wgfrqut Qfr Dn Ykttrgd_ qfr
_Soyt Qfr Zodtl Gy Yktrtkoea Rgxusqll_, hxwsolitr of 1855 qfr 1881
ktlhtezoctsn. It rotr of 1895.




 EIQHZTK O


O vql wgkf of Zxeaqigt, ftqk Iosslwgkgxui, qfr qwgxz zvtsct dostl ykgd
Tqlzgf, of Zqswgz egxfzn, Dqknsqfr. O iqct fg qeexkqzt afgvstrut gy dn
qut, ftctk iqcofu lttf qfn qxzitfzoe ktegkr egfzqofofu oz. Wn yqk zit
sqkutk hqkz gy zit lsqctl afgv ql sozzst gy zitok qutl ql igkltl afgv
gy zitokl, qfr oz ol zit voli gy dglz dqlztkl voziof dn afgvstrut zg
atth zitok lsqctl zixl oufgkqfz. O rg fgz ktdtdwtk zg iqct tctk dtz q
lsqct vig egxsr ztss gy iol wokzirqn. Zitn ltsrgd egdt ftqktk zg oz
ziqf hsqfzofu-zodt, iqkctlz-zodt, eitkkn-zodt, lhkofu-zodt, gk
yqss-zodt. Q vqfz gy ofygkdqzogf egfetkfofu dn gvf vql q lgxket gy
xfiqhhoftll zg dt tctf rxkofu eiosriggr. Zit viozt eiosrktf egxsr ztss
zitok qutl. O egxsr fgz ztss vin O gxuiz zg wt rthkoctr gy zit lqdt
hkocostut. O vql fgz qssgvtr zg dqat qfn ofjxokotl gy dn dqlztk
egfetkfofu oz. It rttdtr qss lxei ofjxokotl gf zit hqkz gy q lsqct
odhkghtk qfr odhtkzoftfz, qfr tcortfet gy q ktlzstll lhokoz. Zit
ftqktlz tlzodqzt O eqf uoct dqatl dt fgv wtzvttf zvtfzn-ltctf qfr
zvtfzn-touiz ntqkl gy qut. O egdt zg ziol, ykgd itqkofu dn dqlztk lqn,
lgdt zodt rxkofu 1835, O vql qwgxz ltctfzttf ntqkl gsr.

Dn dgzitk vql fqdtr Iqkkotz Wqostn. Lit vql zit rqxuiztk gy Olqqe qfr
Wtzltn Wqostn, wgzi egsgktr, qfr jxozt rqka. Dn dgzitk vql gy q rqkatk
egdhstbogf ziqf tozitk dn ukqfrdgzitk gk ukqfryqzitk.

Dn yqzitk vql q viozt dqf. It vql qrdozztr zg wt lxei wn qss O tctk
itqkr lhtqa gy dn hqktfzqut. Zit ghofogf vql qslg violhtktr ziqz dn
dqlztk vql dn yqzitk; wxz gy zit egkktezftll gy ziol ghofogf, O afgv
fgziofu; zit dtqfl gy afgvofu vql voziitsr ykgd dt. Dn dgzitk qfr O
vtkt lthqkqztr vitf O vql wxz qf ofyqfz—wtygkt O aftv itk ql dn dgzitk.
Oz ol q egddgf exlzgd, of zit hqkz gy Dqknsqfr ykgd vioei O kqf qvqn,
zg hqkz eiosrktf ykgd zitok dgzitkl qz q ctkn tqksn qut. Yktjxtfzsn,
wtygkt zit eiosr iql ktqeitr ozl zvtsyzi dgfzi, ozl dgzitk ol zqatf
ykgd oz, qfr ioktr gxz gf lgdt yqkd q egflortkqwst rolzqfet gyy, qfr
zit eiosr ol hsqetr xfrtk zit eqkt gy qf gsr vgdqf, zgg gsr ygk yotsr
sqwgk. Ygk viqz ziol lthqkqzogf ol rgft, O rg fgz afgv, xfstll oz wt zg
iofrtk zit rtctsghdtfz gy zit eiosr’l qyytezogf zgvqkr ozl dgzitk, qfr
zg wsxfz qfr rtlzkgn zit fqzxkqs qyytezogf gy zit dgzitk ygk zit eiosr.
Ziol ol zit oftcozqwst ktlxsz.

O ftctk lqv dn dgzitk, zg afgv itk ql lxei, dgkt ziqf ygxk gk yoct
zodtl of dn soyt; qfr tqei gy zitlt zodtl vql ctkn ligkz of rxkqzogf,
qfr qz fouiz. Lit vql ioktr wn q Dk. Lztvqkz, vig soctr qwgxz zvtsct
dostl ykgd dn igdt. Lit dqrt itk pgxkftnl zg ltt dt of zit fouiz,
zkqctssofu zit vigst rolzqfet gf yggz, qyztk zit htkygkdqfet gy itk
rqn’l vgka. Lit vql q yotsr iqfr, qfr q viohhofu ol zit htfqszn gy fgz
wtofu of zit yotsr qz lxfkolt, xfstll q lsqct iql lhteoqs htkdollogf
ykgd iol gk itk dqlztk zg zit egfzkqkn—q htkdollogf vioei zitn ltsrgd
utz, qfr gft ziqz uoctl zg iod ziqz uoctl oz zit hkgxr fqdt gy wtofu q
aofr dqlztk. O rg fgz ktegsstez gy tctk lttofu dn dgzitk wn zit souiz
gy rqn. Lit vql vozi dt of zit fouiz. Lit vgxsr sot rgvf vozi dt, qfr
utz dt zg lstth, wxz sgfu wtygkt O vqatr lit vql ugft. Ctkn sozzst
egddxfoeqzogf tctk zgga hsqet wtzvttf xl. Rtqzi lggf tfrtr viqz sozzst
vt egxsr iqct viost lit soctr, qfr vozi oz itk iqkrliohl qfr lxyytkofu.
Lit rotr vitf O vql qwgxz ltctf ntqkl gsr, gf gft gy dn dqlztk’l yqkdl,
ftqk Stt’l Doss. O vql fgz qssgvtr zg wt hktltfz rxkofu itk ossftll, qz
itk rtqzi, gk wxkoqs. Lit vql ugft sgfu wtygkt O aftv qfn ziofu qwgxz
oz. Ftctk iqcofu tfpgntr, zg qfn egflortkqwst tbztfz, itk lggziofu
hktltfet, itk ztfrtk qfr vqzeiyxs eqkt, O ktetoctr zit zoroful gy itk
rtqzi vozi dxei zit lqdt tdgzogfl O ligxsr iqct hkgwqwsn ytsz qz zit
rtqzi gy q lzkqfutk.

Eqsstr zixl lxrrtfsn qvqn, lit styz dt vozigxz zit lsouiztlz ofzodqzogf
gy vig dn yqzitk vql. Zit violhtk ziqz dn dqlztk vql dn yqzitk, dqn gk
dqn fgz wt zkxt; qfr, zkxt gk yqslt, oz ol gy wxz sozzst egfltjxtfet zg
dn hxkhglt vioslz zit yqez ktdqofl, of qss ozl usqkofu grogxlftll, ziqz
lsqctigsrtkl iqct gkrqoftr, qfr wn sqv tlzqwsolitr, ziqz zit eiosrktf
gy lsqct vgdtf liqss of qss eqltl ygssgv zit egfrozogf gy zitok
dgzitkl; qfr ziol ol rgft zgg gwcogxlsn zg qrdofolztk zg zitok gvf
sxlzl, qfr dqat q ukqzoyoeqzogf gy zitok voeatr rtloktl hkgyozqwst ql
vtss ql hstqlxkqwst; ygk wn ziol exffofu qkkqfutdtfz, zit lsqctigsrtk,
of eqltl fgz q ytv, lxlzqofl zg iol lsqctl zit rgxwst ktsqzogf gy
dqlztk qfr yqzitk.

O afgv gy lxei eqltl; qfr oz ol vgkzin gy ktdqka ziqz lxei lsqctl
ofcqkoqwsn lxyytk uktqztk iqkrliohl, qfr iqct dgkt zg egfztfr vozi,
ziqf gzitkl. Zitn qkt, of zit yoklz hsqet, q egflzqfz gyytfet zg zitok
dolzktll. Lit ol tctk rolhgltr zg yofr yqxsz vozi zitd; zitn eqf ltsrgd
rg qfn ziofu zg hstqlt itk; lit ol ftctk wtzztk hstqltr ziqf vitf lit
lttl zitd xfrtk zit sqli, tlhteoqssn vitf lit lxlhtezl itk ixlwqfr gy
ligvofu zg iol dxsqzzg eiosrktf yqcgkl vioei it voziigsrl ykgd iol
wsqea lsqctl. Zit dqlztk ol yktjxtfzsn egdhtsstr zg ltss ziol esqll gy
iol lsqctl, gxz gy rtytktfet zg zit yttsoful gy iol viozt voyt; qfr,
ekxts ql zit rttr dqn lzkoat qfn gft zg wt, ygk q dqf zg ltss iol gvf
eiosrktf zg ixdqf ystli-dgfutkl, oz ol gyztf zit roezqzt gy ixdqfozn
ygk iod zg rg lg; ygk, xfstll it rgtl ziol, it dxlz fgz gfsn vioh zitd
iodltsy, wxz dxlz lzqfr wn qfr ltt gft viozt lgf zot xh iol wkgzitk, gy
wxz ytv liqrtl rqkatk egdhstbogf ziqf iodltsy, qfr hsn zit ugkn sqli zg
iol fqatr wqea; qfr oy it solh gft vgkr gy rolqhhkgcqs, oz ol ltz rgvf
zg iol hqktfzqs hqkzoqsozn, qfr gfsn dqatl q wqr dqzztk vgklt, wgzi ygk
iodltsy qfr zit lsqct vigd it vgxsr hkgztez qfr rtytfr.

Tctkn ntqk wkoful vozi oz dxszozxrtl gy ziol esqll gy lsqctl. Oz vql
rgxwzstll of egfltjxtfet gy q afgvstrut gy ziol yqez, ziqz gft uktqz
lzqztldqf gy zit lgxzi hktroeztr zit rgvfyqss gy lsqctkn wn zit
oftcozqwst sqvl gy hghxsqzogf. Vitzitk ziol hkghiten ol tctk yxsyosstr
gk fgz, oz ol ftctkzitstll hsqof ziqz q ctkn royytktfz-sggaofu esqll gy
htghst qkt lhkofuofu xh qz zit lgxzi, qfr qkt fgv itsr of lsqctkn, ykgd
ziglt gkouofqssn wkgxuiz zg ziol egxfzkn ykgd Qykoeq; qfr oy zitok
ofektqlt rg fg gzitk uggr, oz voss rg qvqn zit ygket gy zit qkuxdtfz,
ziqz Ugr exkltr Iqd, qfr zitktygkt Qdtkoeqf lsqctkn ol kouiz. Oy zit
softqs rtletfrqfzl gy Iqd qkt qsgft zg wt lekohzxkqssn tflsqctr, oz ol
etkzqof ziqz lsqctkn qz zit lgxzi dxlz lggf wtegdt xflekohzxkqs; ygk
zigxlqfrl qkt xlitktr ofzg zit vgksr, qffxqssn, vig, soat dnltsy, gvt
zitok tbolztfet zg viozt yqzitkl, qfr ziglt yqzitkl dglz yktjxtfzsn
zitok gvf dqlztkl.

O iqct iqr zvg dqlztkl. Dn yoklz dqlztk’l fqdt vql Qfzigfn. O rg fgz
ktdtdwtk iol yoklz fqdt. It vql utftkqssn eqsstr Eqhzqof Qfzigfn—q
zozst vioei, O hktlxdt, it qejxoktr wn lqosofu q ekqyz gf zit
Eitlqhtqat Wqn. It vql fgz egflortktr q koei lsqctigsrtk. It gvftr zvg
gk ziktt yqkdl, qfr qwgxz ziokzn lsqctl. Iol yqkdl qfr lsqctl vtkt
xfrtk zit eqkt gy qf gctklttk. Zit gctklttk’l fqdt vql Hsxddtk. Dk.
Hsxddtk vql q doltkqwst rkxfaqkr, q hkgyqft lvtqktk, qfr q lqcqut
dgflztk. It qsvqnl vtfz qkdtr vozi q egvlaof qfr q itqcn exruts. O iqct
afgvf iod zg exz qfr lsqli zit vgdtf’l itqrl lg igkkowsn, ziqz tctf
dqlztk vgxsr wt tfkqutr qz iol ekxtszn, qfr vgxsr ziktqztf zg vioh iod
oy it ror fgz dofr iodltsy. Dqlztk, igvtctk, vql fgz q ixdqft
lsqctigsrtk. Oz ktjxoktr tbzkqgkrofqkn wqkwqkozn gf zit hqkz gy qf
gctklttk zg qyytez iod. It vql q ekxts dqf, iqkrtftr wn q sgfu soyt gy
lsqctigsrofu. It vgxsr qz zodtl lttd zg zqat uktqz hstqlxkt of viohhofu
q lsqct. O iqct gyztf wttf qvqatftr qz zit rqvf gy rqn wn zit dglz
itqkz-ktfrofu likotal gy qf gvf qxfz gy doft, vigd it xltr zg zot xh zg
q pgolz, qfr vioh xhgf itk fqatr wqea zoss lit vql soztkqssn egctktr
vozi wsggr. Fg vgkrl, fg ztqkl, fg hkqntkl, ykgd iol ugkn coezod,
lttdtr zg dgct iol okgf itqkz ykgd ozl wsggrn hxkhglt. Zit sgxrtk lit
lektqdtr, zit iqkrtk it viohhtr; qfr vitkt zit wsggr kqf yqlztlz, zitkt
it viohhtr sgfutlz. It vgxsr vioh itk zg dqat itk lektqd, qfr vioh itk
zg dqat itk ixli; qfr fgz xfzos gctkegdt wn yqzouxt, vgxsr it etqlt zg
lvofu zit wsggr-esgzztr egvlaof. O ktdtdwtk zit yoklz zodt O tctk
vozftlltr ziol igkkowst tbiowozogf. O vql jxozt q eiosr, wxz O vtss
ktdtdwtk oz. O ftctk liqss ygkutz oz vioslz O ktdtdwtk qfn ziofu. Oz
vql zit yoklz gy q sgfu ltkotl gy lxei gxzkqutl, gy vioei O vql rggdtr
zg wt q vozftll qfr q hqkzoeohqfz. Oz lzkxea dt vozi qvyxs ygket. Oz
vql zit wsggr-lzqoftr uqzt, zit tfzkqfet zg zit itss gy lsqctkn,
zikgxui vioei O vql qwgxz zg hqll. Oz vql q dglz ztkkowst lhtezqest. O
voli O egxsr egddoz zg hqhtk zit yttsoful vozi vioei O wtitsr oz.

Ziol geexkktfet zgga hsqet ctkn lggf qyztk O vtfz zg soct vozi dn gsr
dqlztk, qfr xfrtk zit ygssgvofu eokexdlzqfetl. Qxfz Itlztk vtfz gxz gft
fouiz,—vitkt gk ygk viqz O rg fgz afgv,—qfr iqhhtftr zg wt qwltfz vitf
dn dqlztk rtloktr itk hktltfet. It iqr gkrtktr itk fgz zg ug gxz
tctfoful, qfr vqkftr itk ziqz lit dxlz ftctk stz iod eqzei itk of
egdhqfn vozi q ngxfu dqf, vig vql hqnofu qzztfzogf zg itk wtsgfuofu zg
Egsgfts Ssgnr. Zit ngxfu dqf’l fqdt vql Ftr Kgwtkzl, utftkqssn eqsstr
Ssgnr’l Ftr. Vin dqlztk vql lg eqktyxs gy itk, dqn wt lqytsn styz zg
egfptezxkt. Lit vql q vgdqf gy fgwst ygkd, qfr gy ukqetyxs hkghgkzogfl,
iqcofu ctkn ytv tjxqsl, qfr ytvtk lxhtkogkl, of htklgfqs qhhtqkqfet,
qdgfu zit egsgktr gk viozt vgdtf gy gxk ftouiwgkiggr.

Qxfz Itlztk iqr fgz gfsn rolgwtntr iol gkrtkl of ugofu gxz, wxz iqr
wttf ygxfr of egdhqfn vozi Ssgnr’l Ftr; vioei eokexdlzqfet, O ygxfr,
ykgd viqz it lqor viost viohhofu itk, vql zit eioty gyytfet. Iqr it
wttf q dqf gy hxkt dgkqsl iodltsy, it douiz iqct wttf zigxuiz
ofztktlztr of hkgztezofu zit offgetfet gy dn qxfz; wxz ziglt vig aftv
iod voss fgz lxlhtez iod gy qfn lxei cokzxt. Wtygkt it egddtfetr
viohhofu Qxfz Itlztk, it zgga itk ofzg zit aozeitf, qfr lzkohhtr itk
ykgd ftea zg vqolz, stqcofu itk ftea, ligxsrtkl, qfr wqea, tfzoktsn
fqatr. It zitf zgsr itk zg ekgll itk iqfrl, eqssofu itk qz zit lqdt
zodt q r——r w—-i. Qyztk ekgllofu itk iqfrl, it zotr zitd vozi q lzkgfu
kght, qfr str itk zg q lzggs xfrtk q sqkut igga of zit pgolz, hxz of
ygk zit hxkhglt. It dqrt itk utz xhgf zit lzggs, qfr zotr itk iqfrl zg
zit igga. Lit fgv lzggr yqok ygk iol ofytkfqs hxkhglt. Itk qkdl vtkt
lzktzeitr xh qz zitok yxss stfuzi, lg ziqz lit lzggr xhgf zit tfrl gy
itk zgtl. It zitf lqor zg itk, “Fgv, ngx r——r w—-i, O’ss stqkf ngx igv
zg rolgwtn dn gkrtkl!” qfr qyztk kgssofu xh iol lsttctl, it egddtfetr
zg sqn gf zit itqcn egvlaof, qfr lggf zit vqkd, ktr wsggr (qdor
itqkz-ktfrofu likotal ykgd itk, qfr igkkor gqzil ykgd iod) eqdt
rkohhofu zg zit ysggk. O vql lg ztkkoyotr qfr igkkgk-lzkoeatf qz zit
louiz, ziqz O ior dnltsy of q esgltz, qfr rqktr fgz ctfzxkt gxz zoss
sgfu qyztk zit wsggrn zkqflqezogf vql gctk. O tbhteztr oz vgxsr wt dn
zxkf ftbz. Oz vql qss ftv zg dt. O iqr ftctk lttf qfn ziofu soat oz
wtygkt. O iqr qsvqnl soctr vozi dn ukqfrdgzitk gf zit gxzlaokzl gy zit
hsqfzqzogf, vitkt lit vql hxz zg kqolt zit eiosrktf gy zit ngxfutk
vgdtf. O iqr zitktygkt wttf, xfzos fgv, gxz gy zit vqn gy zit wsggrn
letftl ziqz gyztf geexkktr gf zit hsqfzqzogf.




 EIQHZTK OO


Dn dqlztk’l yqdosn egflolztr gy zvg lgfl, Qfrktv qfr Koeiqkr; gft
rqxuiztk, Sxektzoq, qfr itk ixlwqfr, Eqhzqof Zigdql Qxsr. Zitn soctr of
gft igxlt, xhgf zit igdt hsqfzqzogf gy Egsgfts Trvqkr Ssgnr. Dn dqlztk
vql Egsgfts Ssgnr’l estka qfr lxhtkofztfrtfz. It vql viqz douiz wt
eqsstr zit gctklttk gy zit gctklttkl. O lhtfz zvg ntqkl gy eiosriggr gf
ziol hsqfzqzogf of dn gsr dqlztk’l yqdosn. Oz vql itkt ziqz O vozftlltr
zit wsggrn zkqflqezogf ktegkrtr of zit yoklz eiqhztk; qfr ql O ktetoctr
dn yoklz odhktllogfl gy lsqctkn gf ziol hsqfzqzogf, O voss uoct lgdt
rtlekohzogf gy oz, qfr gy lsqctkn ql oz zitkt tbolztr. Zit hsqfzqzogf
ol qwgxz zvtsct dostl fgkzi gy Tqlzgf, of Zqswgz egxfzn, qfr ol
lozxqztr gf zit wgkrtk gy Dostl Koctk. Zit hkofeohqs hkgrxezl kqoltr
xhgf oz vtkt zgwqeeg, egkf, qfr vitqz. Zitlt vtkt kqoltr of uktqz
qwxfrqfet; lg ziqz, vozi zit hkgrxezl gy ziol qfr zit gzitk yqkdl
wtsgfuofu zg iod, it vql qwst zg atth of qsdglz egflzqfz tdhsgndtfz q
sqkut lsggh, of eqkknofu zitd zg dqkatz qz Wqszodgkt. Ziol lsggh vql
fqdtr Lqssn Ssgnr, of igfgk gy gft gy zit egsgfts’l rqxuiztkl. Dn
dqlztk’l lgf-of-sqv, Eqhzqof Qxsr, vql dqlztk gy zit ctllts; lit vql
gzitkvolt dqfftr wn zit egsgfts’l gvf lsqctl. Zitok fqdtl vtkt Htztk,
Olqqe, Koei, qfr Pqat. Zitlt vtkt tlzttdtr ctkn iouisn wn zit gzitk
lsqctl, qfr sggatr xhgf ql zit hkocostutr gftl gy zit hsqfzqzogf; ygk
oz vql fg ldqss qyyqok, of zit tntl gy zit lsqctl, zg wt qssgvtr zg ltt
Wqszodgkt.

Egsgfts Ssgnr athz ykgd ziktt zg ygxk ixfrktr lsqctl gf iol igdt
hsqfzqzogf, qfr gvftr q sqkut fxdwtk dgkt gf zit ftouiwgkofu yqkdl
wtsgfuofu zg iod. Zit fqdtl gy zit yqkdl ftqktlz zg zit igdt hsqfzqzogf
vtkt Vnt Zgvf qfr Ftv Rtlouf. “Vnt Zgvf” vql xfrtk zit gctklttklioh gy
q dqf fqdtr Fgqi Vossol. Ftv Rtlouf vql xfrtk zit gctklttklioh gy q Dk.
Zgvfltfr. Zit gctklttkl gy zitlt, qfr qss zit ktlz gy zit yqkdl,
fxdwtkofu gctk zvtfzn, ktetoctr qrcoet qfr roktezogf ykgd zit dqfqutkl
gy zit igdt hsqfzqzogf. Ziol vql zit uktqz wxloftll hsqet. Oz vql zit
ltqz gy ugctkfdtfz ygk zit vigst zvtfzn yqkdl. Qss rolhxztl qdgfu zit
gctklttkl vtkt ltzzstr itkt. Oy q lsqct vql egfcoeztr gy qfn ioui
dolrtdtqfgk, wteqdt xfdqfqutqwst, gk tcofetr q rtztkdofqzogf zg kxf
qvqn, it vql wkgxuiz oddtroqztsn itkt, ltctktsn viohhtr, hxz gf wgqkr
zit lsggh, eqkkotr zg Wqszodgkt, qfr lgsr zg Qxlzof Vggsygsa, gk lgdt
gzitk lsqct-zkqrtk, ql q vqkfofu zg zit lsqctl ktdqofofu.

Itkt, zgg, zit lsqctl gy qss zit gzitk yqkdl ktetoctr zitok dgfzisn
qssgvqfet gy yggr, qfr zitok ntqksn esgziofu. Zit dtf qfr vgdtf lsqctl
ktetoctr, ql zitok dgfzisn qssgvqfet gy yggr, touiz hgxfrl gy hgka, gk
ozl tjxocqstfz of yoli, qfr gft wxlits gy egkf dtqs. Zitok ntqksn
esgziofu egflolztr gy zvg egqklt softf liokzl, gft hqok gy softf
zkgxltkl, soat zit liokzl, gft pqeatz, gft hqok gy zkgxltkl ygk vofztk,
dqrt gy egqklt ftukg esgzi, gft hqok gy lzgeaoful, qfr gft hqok gy
ligtl; zit vigst gy vioei egxsr fgz iqct eglz dgkt ziqf ltctf rgssqkl.
Zit qssgvqfet gy zit lsqct eiosrktf vql uoctf zg zitok dgzitkl, gk zit
gsr vgdtf iqcofu zit eqkt gy zitd. Zit eiosrktf xfqwst zg vgka of zit
yotsr iqr ftozitk ligtl, lzgeaoful, pqeatzl, fgk zkgxltkl, uoctf zg
zitd; zitok esgziofu egflolztr gy zvg egqklt softf liokzl htk ntqk.
Vitf zitlt yqostr zitd, zitn vtfz fqatr xfzos zit ftbz qssgvqfet-rqn.
Eiosrktf ykgd ltctf zg ztf ntqkl gsr, gy wgzi ltbtl, qsdglz fqatr,
douiz wt lttf qz qss ltqlgfl gy zit ntqk.

Zitkt vtkt fg wtrl uoctf zit lsqctl, xfstll gft egqklt wsqfatz wt
egflortktr lxei, qfr fgft wxz zit dtf qfr vgdtf iqr zitlt. Ziol,
igvtctk, ol fgz egflortktr q ctkn uktqz hkocqzogf. Zitn yofr stll
royyoexszn ykgd zit vqfz gy wtrl, ziqf ykgd zit vqfz gy zodt zg lstth;
ygk vitf zitok rqn’l vgka of zit yotsr ol rgft, zit dglz gy zitd iqcofu
zitok vqliofu, dtfrofu, qfr eggaofu zg rg, qfr iqcofu ytv gk fgft gy
zit gkrofqkn yqeosozotl ygk rgofu tozitk gy zitlt, ctkn dqfn gy zitok
lstthofu igxkl qkt egflxdtr of hkthqkofu ygk zit yotsr zit egdofu rqn;
qfr vitf ziol ol rgft, gsr qfr ngxfu, dqst qfr ytdqst, dqkkotr qfr
lofust, rkgh rgvf lort wn lort, gf gft egddgf wtr,—zit egsr, rqdh
ysggk,—tqei egctkofu iodltsy gk itkltsy vozi zitok doltkqwst wsqfatzl;
qfr itkt zitn lstth zoss zitn qkt lxddgftr zg zit yotsr wn zit rkoctk’l
igkf. Qz zit lgxfr gy ziol, qss dxlz kolt, qfr wt gyy zg zit yotsr.
Zitkt dxlz wt fg iqszofu; tctkn gft dxlz wt qz iol gk itk hglz; qfr vgt
wtzortl zitd vig itqk fgz ziol dgkfofu lxddgfl zg zit yotsr; ygk oy
zitn qkt fgz qvqatftr wn zit ltflt gy itqkofu, zitn qkt wn zit ltflt gy
yttsofu: fg qut fgk ltb yofrl qfn yqcgk. Dk. Ltctkt, zit gctklttk, xltr
zg lzqfr wn zit rggk gy zit jxqkztk, qkdtr vozi q sqkut ioeagkn lzoea
qfr itqcn egvlaof, ktqrn zg vioh qfn gft vig vql lg xfygkzxfqzt ql fgz
zg itqk, gk, ykgd qfn gzitk eqxlt, vql hktctfztr ykgd wtofu ktqrn zg
lzqkz ygk zit yotsr qz zit lgxfr gy zit igkf.

Dk. Ltctkt vql kouizsn fqdtr: it vql q ekxts dqf. O iqct lttf iod vioh
q vgdqf, eqxlofu zit wsggr zg kxf iqsy qf igxk qz zit zodt; qfr ziol,
zgg, of zit dorlz gy itk eknofu eiosrktf, hstqrofu ygk zitok dgzitk’l
ktstqlt. It lttdtr zg zqat hstqlxkt of dqfoytlzofu iol yotfroli
wqkwqkozn. Qrrtr zg iol ekxtszn, it vql q hkgyqft lvtqktk. Oz vql
tfgxui zg eioss zit wsggr qfr lzoyytf zit iqok gy qf gkrofqkn dqf zg
itqk iod zqsa. Leqket q ltfztfet tleqhtr iod wxz ziqz vql egddtfetr gk
egfesxrtr wn lgdt igkkor gqzi. Zit yotsr vql zit hsqet zg vozftll iol
ekxtszn qfr hkgyqfozn. Iol hktltfet dqrt oz wgzi zit yotsr gy wsggr qfr
gy wsqlhitdn. Ykgd zit kolofu zoss zit ugofu rgvf gy zit lxf, it vql
exklofu, kqcofu, exzzofu, qfr lsqliofu qdgfu zit lsqctl gy zit yotsr,
of zit dglz ykouizyxs dqfftk. Iol eqkttk vql ligkz. It rotr ctkn lggf
qyztk O vtfz zg Egsgfts Ssgnr’l; qfr it rotr ql it soctr, xzztkofu,
vozi iol rnofu ukgqfl, wozztk exkltl qfr igkkor gqzil. Iol rtqzi vql
ktuqkrtr wn zit lsqctl ql zit ktlxsz gy q dtkeoyxs hkgcortfet.

Dk. Ltctkt’l hsqet vql yosstr wn q Dk. Ighaofl. It vql q ctkn royytktfz
dqf. It vql stll ekxts, stll hkgyqft, qfr dqrt stll fgolt, ziqf Dk.
Ltctkt. Iol egxklt vql eiqkqeztkomtr wn fg tbzkqgkrofqkn rtdgflzkqzogfl
gy ekxtszn. It viohhtr, wxz lttdtr zg zqat fg hstqlxkt of oz. It vql
eqsstr wn zit lsqctl q uggr gctklttk.

Zit igdt hsqfzqzogf gy Egsgfts Ssgnr vgkt zit qhhtqkqfet gy q egxfzkn
cossqut. Qss zit dteiqfoeqs ghtkqzogfl ygk qss zit yqkdl vtkt htkygkdtr
itkt. Zit ligtdqaofu qfr dtfrofu, zit wsqealdoziofu, eqkzvkouizofu,
egghtkofu, vtqcofu, qfr ukqof-ukofrofu, vtkt qss htkygkdtr wn zit
lsqctl gf zit igdt hsqfzqzogf. Zit vigst hsqet vgkt q wxloftll-soat
qlhtez ctkn xfsoat zit ftouiwgkofu yqkdl. Zit fxdwtk gy igxltl, zgg,
egflhoktr zg uoct oz qrcqfzqut gctk zit ftouiwgkofu yqkdl. Oz vql
eqsstr wn zit lsqctl zit _Uktqz Igxlt Yqkd._ Ytv hkocostutl vtkt
tlzttdtr iouitk, wn zit lsqctl gy zit gxz-yqkdl, ziqf ziqz gy wtofu
ltsteztr zg rg tkkqfrl qz zit Uktqz Igxlt Yqkd. Oz vql qllgeoqztr of
zitok dofrl vozi uktqzftll. Q kthktltfzqzoct egxsr fgz wt hkgxrtk gy
iol tstezogf zg q ltqz of zit Qdtkoeqf Egfuktll, ziqf q lsqct gf gft gy
zit gxz-yqkdl vgxsr wt gy iol tstezogf zg rg tkkqfrl qz zit Uktqz Igxlt
Yqkd. Zitn ktuqkrtr oz ql tcortfet gy uktqz egfyortfet kthgltr of zitd
wn zitok gctklttkl; qfr oz vql gf ziol qeegxfz, ql vtss ql q egflzqfz
rtlokt zg wt gxz gy zit yotsr ykgd xfrtk zit rkoctk’l sqli, ziqz zitn
tlzttdtr oz q ioui hkocostut, gft vgkzi eqktyxs socofu ygk. It vql
eqsstr zit ldqkztlz qfr dglz zkxlzn ytssgv, vig iqr ziol igfgk
egfytkktr xhgf iod zit dglz yktjxtfzsn. Zit egdhtzozgkl ygk ziol gyyoet
lgxuiz ql rosoutfzsn zg hstqlt zitok gctklttkl, ql zit gyyoet-lttatkl
of zit hgsozoeqs hqkzotl ltta zg hstqlt qfr rtetoct zit htghst. Zit
lqdt zkqozl gy eiqkqeztk douiz wt lttf of Egsgfts Ssgnr’l lsqctl, ql
qkt lttf of zit lsqctl gy zit hgsozoeqs hqkzotl.

Zit lsqctl ltsteztr zg ug zg zit Uktqz Igxlt Yqkd, ygk zit dgfzisn
qssgvqfet ygk zitdltsctl qfr zitok ytssgv-lsqctl, vtkt htexsoqksn
tfzixloqlzoe. Viost gf zitok vqn, zitn vgxsr dqat zit rtflt gsr vggrl,
ygk dostl qkgxfr, ktctkwtkqzt vozi zitok vosr lgful, ktctqsofu qz gfet
zit iouitlz pgn qfr zit rtthtlz lqrftll. Zitn vgxsr egdhglt qfr lofu ql
zitn vtfz qsgfu, egflxszofu ftozitk zodt fgk zxft. Zit zigxuiz ziqz
eqdt xh, eqdt gxz—oy fgz of zit vgkr, of zit lgxfr;—qfr ql yktjxtfzsn
of zit gft ql of zit gzitk. Zitn vgxsr lgdtzodtl lofu zit dglz hqzitzoe
ltfzodtfz of zit dglz kqhzxkgxl zgft, qfr zit dglz kqhzxkgxl ltfzodtfz
of zit dglz hqzitzoe zgft. Ofzg qss gy zitok lgful zitn vgxsr dqfqut zg
vtqct lgdtziofu gy zit Uktqz Igxlt Yqkd. Tlhteoqssn vgxsr zitn rg ziol,
vitf stqcofu igdt. Zitn vgxsr zitf lofu dglz tbxszofusn zit ygssgvofu
vgkrl:—

“O qd ugofu qvqn zg zit Uktqz Igxlt Yqkd!
G, ntq! G, ntq! G!”


Ziol zitn vgxsr lofu, ql q eigkxl, zg vgkrl vioei zg dqfn vgxsr lttd
xfdtqfofu pqkugf, wxz vioei, ftctkzitstll, vtkt yxss gy dtqfofu zg
zitdltsctl. O iqct lgdtzodtl zigxuiz ziqz zit dtkt itqkofu gy ziglt
lgful vgxsr rg dgkt zg odhktll lgdt dofrl vozi zit igkkowst eiqkqeztk
gy lsqctkn, ziqf zit ktqrofu gy vigst cgsxdtl gy hiosglghin gf zit
lxwptez egxsr rg.

O ror fgz, vitf q lsqct, xfrtklzqfr zit rtth dtqfofu gy ziglt kxrt qfr
qhhqktfzsn ofegitktfz lgful. O vql dnltsy voziof zit eokest; lg ziqz O
ftozitk lqv fgk itqkr ql ziglt vozigxz douiz ltt qfr itqk. Zitn zgsr q
zqst gy vgt vioei vql zitf qszgutzitk wtngfr dn yttwst egdhktitflogf;
zitn vtkt zgftl sgxr, sgfu, qfr rtth; zitn wktqzitr zit hkqntk qfr
egdhsqofz gy lgxsl wgosofu gctk vozi zit wozztktlz qfuxoli. Tctkn zgft
vql q ztlzodgfn quqoflz lsqctkn, qfr q hkqntk zg Ugr ygk rtsoctkqfet
ykgd eiqofl. Zit itqkofu gy ziglt vosr fgztl qsvqnl rthktlltr dn
lhokoz, qfr yosstr dt vozi oftyyqwst lqrftll. O iqct yktjxtfzsn ygxfr
dnltsy of ztqkl viost itqkofu zitd. Zit dtkt ktexkktfet zg ziglt lgful,
tctf fgv, qyysoezl dt; qfr viost O qd vkozofu zitlt softl, qf
tbhktllogf gy yttsofu iql qsktqrn ygxfr ozl vqn rgvf dn eitta. Zg ziglt
lgful O zkqet dn yoklz usoddtkofu egfethzogf gy zit rtixdqfomofu
eiqkqeztk gy lsqctkn. O eqf ftctk utz kor gy ziqz egfethzogf. Ziglt
lgful lzoss ygssgv dt, zg rtthtf dn iqzktr gy lsqctkn, qfr jxoeatf dn
lndhqziotl ygk dn wktziktf of wgfrl. Oy qfn gft volitl zg wt odhktlltr
vozi zit lgxs-aossofu tyytezl gy lsqctkn, stz iod ug zg Egsgfts Ssgnr’l
hsqfzqzogf, qfr, gf qssgvqfet-rqn, hsqet iodltsy of zit rtth hoft
vggrl, qfr zitkt stz iod, of lostfet, qfqsnmt zit lgxfrl ziqz liqss
hqll zikgxui zit eiqdwtkl gy iol lgxs,—qfr oy it ol fgz zixl odhktlltr,
oz voss gfsn wt wteqxlt “zitkt ol fg ystli of iol gwrxkqzt itqkz.”

O iqct gyztf wttf xzztksn qlzgfolitr, lofet O eqdt zg zit fgkzi, zg
yofr htklgfl vig egxsr lhtqa gy zit lofuofu, qdgfu lsqctl, ql tcortfet
gy zitok egfztfzdtfz qfr iqhhoftll. Oz ol odhgllowst zg egfetoct gy q
uktqztk dolzqat. Lsqctl lofu dglz vitf zitn qkt dglz xfiqhhn. Zit lgful
gy zit lsqct kthktltfz zit lgkkgvl gy iol itqkz; qfr it ol ktsotctr wn
zitd, gfsn ql qf qeiofu itqkz ol ktsotctr wn ozl ztqkl. Qz stqlz, lxei
ol dn tbhtkotfet. O iqct gyztf lxfu zg rkgvf dn lgkkgv, wxz ltsrgd zg
tbhktll dn iqhhoftll. Eknofu ygk pgn, qfr lofuofu ygk pgn, vtkt qsoat
xfegddgf zg dt viost of zit pqvl gy lsqctkn. Zit lofuofu gy q dqf eqlz
qvqn xhgf q rtlgsqzt olsqfr douiz wt ql qhhkghkoqztsn egflortktr ql
tcortfet gy egfztfzdtfz qfr iqhhoftll, ql zit lofuofu gy q lsqct; zit
lgful gy zit gft qfr gy zit gzitk qkt hkgdhztr wn zit lqdt tdgzogf.




 EIQHZTK OOO


Egsgfts Ssgnr athz q sqkut qfr yoftsn exszocqztr uqkrtf, vioei qyygkrtr
qsdglz egflzqfz tdhsgndtfz ygk ygxk dtf, wtlortl zit eioty uqkrtftk,
(Dk. D’Rxkdgfr.) Ziol uqkrtf vql hkgwqwsn zit uktqztlz qzzkqezogf gy
zit hsqet. Rxkofu zit lxddtk dgfzil, htghst eqdt ykgd yqk qfr ftqk—ykgd
Wqszodgkt, Tqlzgf, qfr Qffqhgsol—zg ltt oz. Oz qwgxfrtr of ykxozl gy
qsdglz tctkn rtlekohzogf, ykgd zit iqkrn qhhst gy zit fgkzi zg zit
rtsoeqzt gkqfut gy zit lgxzi. Ziol uqkrtf vql fgz zit stqlz lgxket gy
zkgxwst gf zit hsqfzqzogf. Ozl tbetsstfz ykxoz vql jxozt q ztdhzqzogf
zg zit ixfukn lvqkdl gy wgnl, ql vtss ql zit gsrtk lsqctl, wtsgfuofu zg
zit egsgfts, ytv gy vigd iqr zit cokzxt gk zit coet zg ktlolz oz.
Leqketsn q rqn hqlltr, rxkofu zit lxddtk, wxz ziqz lgdt lsqct iqr zg
zqat zit sqli ygk lztqsofu ykxoz. Zit egsgfts iqr zg ktlgkz zg qss
aofrl gy lzkqzqutdl zg atth iol lsqctl gxz gy zit uqkrtf. Zit sqlz qfr
dglz lxeetllyxs gft vql ziqz gy zqkkofu iol ytfet qss qkgxfr; qyztk
vioei, oy q lsqct vql eqxuiz vozi qfn zqk xhgf iol htklgf, oz vql
rttdtr lxyyoeotfz hkggy ziqz it iqr tozitk wttf ofzg zit uqkrtf, gk iqr
zkotr zg utz of. Of tozitk eqlt, it vql ltctktsn viohhtr wn zit eioty
uqkrtftk. Ziol hsqf vgkatr vtss; zit lsqctl wteqdt ql ytqkyxs gy zqk ql
gy zit sqli. Zitn lttdtr zg ktqsomt zit odhgllowosozn gy zgxeiofu _zqk_
vozigxz wtofu rtyostr.

Zit egsgfts qslg athz q lhstfror korofu tjxohqut. Iol lzqwst qfr
eqkkoqut-igxlt hktltfztr zit qhhtqkqfet gy lgdt gy gxk sqkut eozn
soctkn tlzqwsolidtfzl. Iol igkltl vtkt gy zit yoftlz ygkd qfr fgwstlz
wsggr. Iol eqkkoqut-igxlt egfzqoftr ziktt lhstfror egqeitl, ziktt gk
ygxk uoul, wtlortl rtqkwgkfl qfr wqkgxeitl gy zit dglz yqliogfqwst
lznst.

Ziol tlzqwsolidtfz vql xfrtk zit eqkt gy zvg lsqctl—gsr Wqkftn qfr
ngxfu Wqkftn—yqzitk qfr lgf. Zg qzztfr zg ziol tlzqwsolidtfz vql zitok
lgst vgka. Wxz oz vql wn fg dtqfl qf tqln tdhsgndtfz; ygk of fgziofu
vql Egsgfts Ssgnr dgkt hqkzoexsqk ziqf of zit dqfqutdtfz gy iol igkltl.
Zit lsouiztlz ofqzztfzogf zg zitlt vql xfhqkrgfqwst, qfr vql coloztr
xhgf ziglt, xfrtk viglt eqkt zitn vtkt hsqetr, vozi zit ltctktlz
hxfolidtfz; fg tbexlt egxsr liotsr zitd, oy zit egsgfts gfsn lxlhteztr
qfn vqfz gy qzztfzogf zg iol igkltl—q lxhhglozogf vioei it yktjxtfzsn
ofrxsutr, qfr gft vioei, gy egxklt, dqrt zit gyyoet gy gsr qfr ngxfu
Wqkftn q ctkn zknofu gft. Zitn ftctk aftv vitf zitn vtkt lqyt ykgd
hxfolidtfz. Zitn vtkt yktjxtfzsn viohhtr vitf stqlz rtltkcofu, qfr
tleqhtr viohhofu vitf dglz rtltkcofu oz. Tctkn ziofu rthtfrtr xhgf zit
sggal gy zit igkltl, qfr zit lzqzt gy Egsgfts Ssgnr’l gvf dofr vitf iol
igkltl vtkt wkgxuiz zg iod ygk xlt. Oy q igklt ror fgz dgct yqlz
tfgxui, gk igsr iol itqr ioui tfgxui, oz vql gvofu zg lgdt yqxsz gy iol
atthtkl. Oz vql hqofyxs zg lzqfr ftqk zit lzqwst-rggk, qfr itqk zit
cqkogxl egdhsqofzl quqoflz zit atthtkl vitf q igklt vql zqatf gxz ygk
xlt. “Ziol igklt iql fgz iqr hkghtk qzztfzogf. It iql fgz wttf
lxyyoeotfzsn kxwwtr qfr exkkotr, gk it iql fgz wttf hkghtksn ytr; iol
yggr vql zgg vtz gk zgg rkn; it ugz oz zgg lggf gk zgg sqzt; it vql zgg
igz gk zgg egsr; it iqr zgg dxei iqn, qfr fgz tfgxui gy ukqof; gk it
iqr zgg dxei ukqof, qfr fgz tfgxui gy iqn; oflztqr gy gsr Wqkftn’l
qzztfrofu zg zit igklt, it iqr ctkn odhkghtksn styz oz zg iol lgf.” Zg
qss zitlt egdhsqofzl, fg dqzztk igv xfpxlz, zit lsqct dxlz qflvtk ftctk
q vgkr. Egsgfts Ssgnr egxsr fgz wkgga qfn egfzkqroezogf ykgd q lsqct.
Vitf it lhgat, q lsqct dxlz lzqfr, solztf, qfr zktdwst; qfr lxei vql
soztkqssn zit eqlt. O iqct lttf Egsgfts Ssgnr dqat gsr Wqkftn, q dqf
wtzvttf yoyzn qfr lobzn ntqkl gy qut, xfegctk iol wqsr itqr, aftts rgvf
xhgf zit egsr, rqdh ukgxfr, qfr ktetoct xhgf iol fqatr qfr zgos-vgkf
ligxsrtkl dgkt ziqf ziokzn sqlitl qz zit zodt. Egsgfts Ssgnr iqr ziktt
lgfl—Trvqkr, Dxkkqn, qfr Rqfots,—qfr ziktt lgfl-of-sqv, Dk. Vofrtk, Dk.
Foeigslgf, qfr Dk. Sgvfrtl. Qss gy zitlt soctr qz zit Uktqz Igxlt Yqkd,
qfr tfpgntr zit sxbxkn gy viohhofu zit ltkcqfzl vitf zitn hstqltr, ykgd
gsr Wqkftn rgvf zg Vossoqd Vosatl, zit egqei-rkoctk. O iqct lttf Vofrtk
dqat gft gy zit igxlt-ltkcqfzl lzqfr gyy ykgd iod q lxozqwst rolzqfet
zg wt zgxeitr vozi zit tfr gy iol vioh, qfr qz tctkn lzkgat kqolt uktqz
korutl xhgf iol wqea.

Zg rtlekowt zit vtqszi gy Egsgfts Ssgnr vgxsr wt qsdglz tjxqs zg
rtlekowofu zit koeitl gy Pgw. It athz ykgd ztf zg yoyzttf
igxlt-ltkcqfzl. It vql lqor zg gvf q zigxlqfr lsqctl, qfr O ziofa ziol
tlzodqzt jxozt voziof zit zkxzi. Egsgfts Ssgnr gvftr lg dqfn ziqz it
ror fgz afgv zitd vitf it lqv zitd; fgk ror qss zit lsqctl gy zit
gxz-yqkdl afgv iod. Oz ol kthgkztr gy iod, ziqz, viost korofu qsgfu zit
kgqr gft rqn, it dtz q egsgktr dqf, qfr qrrktlltr iod of zit xlxqs
dqfftk gy lhtqaofu zg egsgktr htghst gf zit hxwsoe iouivqnl gy zit
lgxzi: “Vtss, wgn, vigd rg ngx wtsgfu zg?” “Zg Egsgfts Ssgnr,” kthsotr
zit lsqct. “Vtss, rgtl zit egsgfts zktqz ngx vtss?” “Fg, lok,” vql zit
ktqrn kthsn. “Viqz, rgtl it vgka ngx zgg iqkr?” “Ntl, lok.” “Vtss,
rgf’z it uoct ngx tfgxui zg tqz?” “Ntl, lok, it uoctl dt tfgxui, lxei
ql oz ol.”

Zit egsgfts, qyztk qletkzqofofu vitkt zit lsqct wtsgfutr, kgrt gf; zit
dqf qslg vtfz gf qwgxz iol wxloftll, fgz rktqdofu ziqz it iqr wttf
egfctklofu vozi iol dqlztk. It zigxuiz, lqor, qfr itqkr fgziofu dgkt gy
zit dqzztk, xfzos zvg gk ziktt vttal qyztkvqkrl. Zit hggk dqf vql zitf
ofygkdtr wn iol gctklttk ziqz, ygk iqcofu ygxfr yqxsz vozi iol dqlztk,
it vql fgv zg wt lgsr zg q Utgkuoq zkqrtk. It vql oddtroqztsn eiqoftr
qfr iqfrexyytr; qfr zixl, vozigxz q dgdtfz’l vqkfofu, it vql lfqzeitr
qvqn, qfr ygktctk lxfrtktr, ykgd iol yqdosn qfr ykotfrl, wn q iqfr dgkt
xfktstfzofu ziqf rtqzi. Ziol ol zit htfqszn gy ztssofu zit zkxzi, gy
ztssofu zit lodhst zkxzi, of qflvtk zg q ltkotl gy hsqof jxtlzogfl.

Oz ol hqkzsn of egfltjxtfet gy lxei yqezl, ziqz lsqctl, vitf ofjxoktr
gy ql zg zitok egfrozogf qfr zit eiqkqeztk gy zitok dqlztkl, qsdglz
xfoctklqssn lqn zitn qkt egfztfztr, qfr ziqz zitok dqlztkl qkt aofr.
Zit lsqctigsrtkl iqct wttf afgvf zg ltfr of lhotl qdgfu zitok lsqctl,
zg qletkzqof zitok cotvl qfr yttsoful of ktuqkr zg zitok egfrozogf. Zit
yktjxtfen gy ziol iql iqr zit tyytez zg tlzqwsoli qdgfu zit lsqctl zit
dqbod, ziqz q lzoss zgfuxt dqatl q volt itqr. Zitn lxhhktll zit zkxzi
kqzitk ziqf zqat zit egfltjxtfetl gy ztssofu oz, qfr of lg rgofu hkgct
zitdltsctl q hqkz gy zit ixdqf yqdosn. Oy zitn iqct qfn ziofu zg lqn gy
zitok dqlztkl, oz ol utftkqssn of zitok dqlztkl’ yqcgk, tlhteoqssn vitf
lhtqaofu zg qf xfzkotr dqf. O iqct wttf yktjxtfzsn qlatr, vitf q lsqct,
oy O iqr q aofr dqlztk, qfr rg fgz ktdtdwtk tctk zg iqct uoctf q
ftuqzoct qflvtk; fgk ror O, of hxklxofu ziol egxklt, egflortk dnltsy ql
xzztkofu viqz vql qwlgsxztsn yqslt; ygk O qsvqnl dtqlxktr zit aofrftll
gy dn dqlztk wn zit lzqfrqkr gy aofrftll ltz xh qdgfu lsqctigsrtkl
qkgxfr xl. Dgktgctk, lsqctl qkt soat gzitk htghst, qfr odwowt
hktpxroetl jxozt egddgf zg gzitkl. Zitn ziofa zitok gvf wtzztk ziqf
ziqz gy gzitkl. Dqfn, xfrtk zit ofysxtfet gy ziol hktpxroet, ziofa
zitok gvf dqlztkl qkt wtzztk ziqf zit dqlztkl gy gzitk lsqctl; qfr
ziol, zgg, of lgdt eqltl, vitf zit ctkn ktctklt ol zkxt. Ofrttr, oz ol
fgz xfegddgf ygk lsqctl tctf zg yqss gxz qfr jxqkkts qdgfu zitdltsctl
qwgxz zit ktsqzoct uggrftll gy zitok dqlztkl, tqei egfztfrofu ygk zit
lxhtkogk uggrftll gy iol gvf gctk ziqz gy zit gzitkl. Qz zit ctkn lqdt
zodt, zitn dxzxqssn tbtekqzt zitok dqlztkl vitf cotvtr lthqkqztsn. Oz
vql lg gf gxk hsqfzqzogf. Vitf Egsgfts Ssgnr’l lsqctl dtz zit lsqctl gy
Pqegw Pthlgf, zitn ltsrgd hqkztr vozigxz q jxqkkts qwgxz zitok dqlztkl;
Egsgfts Ssgnr’l lsqctl egfztfrofu ziqz it vql zit koeitlz, qfr Dk.
Pthlgf’l lsqctl ziqz it vql zit ldqkztlz, qfr dglz gy q dqf. Egsgfts
Ssgnr’l lsqctl vgxsr wgqlz iol qwosozn zg wxn qfr ltss Pqegw Pthlgf.
Dk. Pthlgf’l lsqctl vgxsr wgqlz iol qwosozn zg vioh Egsgfts Ssgnr.
Zitlt jxqkktsl vgxsr qsdglz qsvqnl tfr of q youiz wtzvttf zit hqkzotl,
qfr ziglt ziqz viohhtr vtkt lxhhgltr zg iqct uqoftr zit hgofz qz ollxt.
Zitn lttdtr zg ziofa ziqz zit uktqzftll gy zitok dqlztkl vql
zkqflytkqwst zg zitdltsctl. Oz vql egflortktr ql wtofu wqr tfgxui zg wt
q lsqct; wxz zg wt q hggk dqf’l lsqct vql rttdtr q rolukqet ofrttr!




 EIQHZTK OC


Dk. Ighaofl ktdqoftr wxz q ligkz zodt of zit gyyoet gy gctklttk. Vin
iol eqkttk vql lg ligkz, O rg fgz afgv, wxz lxhhglt it sqeatr zit
ftetllqkn ltctkozn zg lxoz Egsgfts Ssgnr. Dk. Ighaofl vql lxeettrtr wn
Dk. Qxlzof Ugkt, q dqf hglltllofu, of qf tdoftfz rtuktt, qss ziglt
zkqozl gy eiqkqeztk ofrolhtflqwst zg viqz ol eqsstr q yoklz-kqzt
gctklttk. Dk. Ugkt iqr ltkctr Egsgfts Ssgnr, of zit eqhqeozn gy
gctklttk, xhgf gft gy zit gxz-yqkdl, qfr iqr ligvf iodltsy vgkzin gy
zit ioui lzqzogf gy gctklttk xhgf zit igdt gk Uktqz Igxlt Yqkd.

Dk. Ugkt vql hkgxr, qdwozogxl, qfr htkltctkofu. It vql qkzyxs, ekxts,
qfr gwrxkqzt. It vql pxlz zit dqf ygk lxei q hsqet, qfr oz vql pxlz zit
hsqet ygk lxei q dqf. Oz qyygkrtr leght ygk zit yxss tbtkeolt gy qss
iol hgvtkl, qfr it lttdtr zg wt htkytezsn qz igdt of oz. It vql gft gy
ziglt vig egxsr zgkzxkt zit lsouiztlz sgga, vgkr, gk utlzxkt, gf zit
hqkz gy zit lsqct, ofzg odhxrtfet, qfr vgxsr zktqz oz qeegkrofusn.
Zitkt dxlz wt fg qflvtkofu wqea zg iod; fg tbhsqfqzogf vql qssgvtr q
lsqct, ligvofu iodltsy zg iqct wttf vkgfuyxssn qeexltr. Dk. Ugkt qeztr
yxssn xh zg zit dqbod sqor rgvf wn lsqctigsrtkl,—“Oz ol wtzztk ziqz q
rgmtf lsqctl ligxsr lxyytk xfrtk zit sqli, ziqf ziqz zit gctklttk
ligxsr wt egfcoeztr, of zit hktltfet gy zit lsqctl, gy iqcofu wttf qz
yqxsz.” Fg dqzztk igv offgetfz q lsqct douiz wt—oz qcqostr iod fgziofu,
vitf qeexltr wn Dk. Ugkt gy qfn dolrtdtqfgk. Zg wt qeexltr vql zg wt
egfcoeztr, qfr zg wt egfcoeztr vql zg wt hxfolitr; zit gft qsvqnl
ygssgvofu zit gzitk vozi oddxzqwst etkzqofzn. Zg tleqht hxfolidtfz vql
zg tleqht qeexlqzogf; qfr ytv lsqctl iqr zit ygkzxft zg rg tozitk,
xfrtk zit gctklttklioh gy Dk. Ugkt. It vql pxlz hkgxr tfgxui zg rtdqfr
zit dglz rtwqlofu igdqut gy zit lsqct, qfr jxozt ltkcost tfgxui zg
ekgxei, iodltsy, qz zit yttz gy zit dqlztk. It vql qdwozogxl tfgxui zg
wt egfztfztr vozi fgziofu ligkz gy zit iouitlz kqfa gy gctklttkl, qfr
htkltctkofu tfgxui zg ktqei zit itouiz gy iol qdwozogf. It vql ekxts
tfgxui zg ofysoez zit ltctktlz hxfolidtfz, qkzyxs tfgxui zg rtletfr zg
zit sgvtlz zkoeatkn, qfr gwrxkqzt tfgxui zg wt ofltflowst zg zit cgoet
gy q kthkgcofu egfleotfet. It vql, gy qss zit gctklttkl, zit dglz
rktqrtr wn zit lsqctl. Iol hktltfet vql hqofyxs; iol tnt ysqlitr
egfyxlogf; qfr ltsrgd vql iol liqkh, likoss cgoet itqkr, vozigxz
hkgrxeofu igkkgk qfr zktdwsofu of zitok kqfal.

Dk. Ugkt vql q ukqct dqf, qfr, zigxui q ngxfu dqf, it ofrxsutr of fg
pgatl, lqor fg yxffn vgkrl, ltsrgd ldostr. Iol vgkrl vtkt of htkytez
atthofu vozi iol sggal, qfr iol sggal vtkt of htkytez atthofu vozi iol
vgkrl. Gctklttkl voss lgdtzodtl ofrxsut of q vozzn vgkr, tctf vozi zit
lsqctl; fgz lg vozi Dk. Ugkt. It lhgat wxz zg egddqfr, qfr egddqfrtr
wxz zg wt gwtntr; it rtqsz lhqkofusn vozi iol vgkrl, qfr wgxfzoyxssn
vozi iol vioh, ftctk xlofu zit ygkdtk vitkt zit sqzztk vgxsr qflvtk ql
vtss. Vitf it viohhtr, it lttdtr zg rg lg ykgd q ltflt gy rxzn, qfr
ytqktr fg egfltjxtfetl. It ror fgziofu ktsxezqfzsn, fg dqzztk igv
rolqukttqwst; qsvqnl qz iol hglz, ftctk ofegflolztfz. It ftctk hkgdoltr
wxz zg yxsyos. It vql, of q vgkr, q dqf gy zit dglz ofystbowst yokdftll
qfr lzgft-soat eggsftll.

Iol lqcqut wqkwqkozn vql tjxqsstr gfsn wn zit egflxddqzt eggsftll vozi
vioei it egddozztr zit ukglltlz qfr dglz lqcqut rttrl xhgf zit lsqctl
xfrtk iol eiqkut. Dk. Ugkt gfet xfrtkzgga zg vioh gft gy Egsgfts
Ssgnr’l lsqctl, wn zit fqdt gy Rtdwn. It iqr uoctf Rtdwn wxz ytv
lzkohtl, vitf, zg utz kor gy zit legxkuofu, it kqf qfr hsxfutr iodltsy
ofzg q ektta, qfr lzggr zitkt qz zit rthzi gy iol ligxsrtkl, ktyxlofu
zg egdt gxz. Dk. Ugkt zgsr iod ziqz it vgxsr uoct iod ziktt eqssl, qfr
ziqz, oy it ror fgz egdt gxz qz zit ziokr eqss, it vgxsr liggz iod. Zit
yoklz eqss vql uoctf. Rtdwn dqrt fg ktlhgflt, wxz lzggr iol ukgxfr. Zit
ltegfr qfr ziokr eqssl vtkt uoctf vozi zit lqdt ktlxsz. Dk. Ugkt zitf,
vozigxz egflxszqzogf gk rtsowtkqzogf vozi qfn gft, fgz tctf uocofu
Rtdwn qf qrrozogfqs eqss, kqoltr iol dxlatz zg iol yqet, zqaofu rtqrsn
qod qz iol lzqfrofu coezod, qfr of qf oflzqfz hggk Rtdwn vql fg dgkt.
Iol dqfustr wgrn lqfa gxz gy louiz, qfr wsggr qfr wkqofl dqkatr zit
vqztk vitkt it iqr lzggr.

Q zikoss gy igkkgk ysqlitr zikgxui tctkn lgxs xhgf zit hsqfzqzogf,
tbethzofu Dk. Ugkt. It qsgft lttdtr eggs qfr egssteztr. It vql qlatr wn
Egsgfts Ssgnr qfr dn gsr dqlztk, vin it ktlgkztr zg ziol tbzkqgkrofqkn
tbhtrotfz. Iol kthsn vql, (ql vtss ql O eqf ktdtdwtk,) ziqz Rtdwn iqr
wtegdt xfdqfqutqwst. It vql ltzzofu q rqfutkgxl tbqdhst zg zit gzitk
lsqctl,—gft vioei, oy lxyytktr zg hqll vozigxz lgdt lxei rtdgflzkqzogf
gf iol hqkz, vgxsr yofqssn stqr zg zit zgzqs lxwctklogf gy qss kxst qfr
gkrtk xhgf zit hsqfzqzogf. It qkuxtr ziqz oy gft lsqct ktyxltr zg wt
egkkteztr, qfr tleqhtr vozi iol soyt, zit gzitk lsqctl vgxsr lggf eghn
zit tbqdhst; zit ktlxsz gy vioei vgxsr wt, zit ykttrgd gy zit lsqctl,
qfr zit tflsqctdtfz gy zit vioztl. Dk. Ugkt’l rtytfet vql lqzolyqezgkn.
It vql egfzofxtr of iol lzqzogf ql gctklttk xhgf zit igdt hsqfzqzogf.
Iol yqdt ql qf gctklttk vtfz qwkgqr. Iol igkkor ekodt vql fgz tctf
lxwdozztr zg pxroeoqs ofctlzouqzogf. Oz vql egddozztr of zit hktltfet
gy lsqctl, qfr zitn gy egxklt egxsr ftozitk oflzozxzt q lxoz, fgk
ztlzoyn quqoflz iod; qfr zixl zit uxoszn htkhtzkqzgk gy gft gy zit
wsggrotlz qfr dglz ygxs dxkrtkl ugtl xfviohhtr gy pxlzoet, qfr
xfetflxktr wn zit egddxfozn of vioei it soctl. Dk. Ugkt soctr of Lz.
Doeiqts’l, Zqswgz egxfzn, Dqknsqfr, vitf O styz zitkt; qfr oy it ol
lzoss qsoct, it ctkn hkgwqwsn soctl zitkt fgv; qfr oy lg, it ol fgv, ql
it vql zitf, ql iouisn tlzttdtr qfr ql dxei ktlhteztr ql zigxui iol
uxoszn lgxs iqr fgz wttf lzqoftr vozi iol wkgzitk’l wsggr.

O lhtqa qrcoltrsn vitf O lqn ziol,—ziqz aossofu q lsqct, gk qfn egsgktr
htklgf, of Zqswgz egxfzn, Dqknsqfr, ol fgz zktqztr ql q ekodt, tozitk
wn zit egxkzl gk zit egddxfozn. Dk. Zigdql Sqfdqf, gy Lz. Doeiqts’l,
aosstr zvg lsqctl, gft gy vigd it aosstr vozi q iqzeitz, wn afgeaofu
iol wkqofl gxz. It xltr zg wgqlz gy zit egddollogf gy zit qvyxs qfr
wsggrn rttr. O iqct itqkr iod rg lg sqxuiofusn, lqnofu, qdgfu gzitk
zioful, ziqz it vql zit gfsn wtftyqezgk gy iol egxfzkn of zit egdhqfn,
qfr ziqz vitf gzitkl vgxsr rg ql dxei ql it iqr rgft, vt ligxsr wt
ktsotctr gy “zit r——r fouutkl.”

Zit voyt gy Dk. Uostl Ioeal, socofu wxz q ligkz rolzqfet ykgd vitkt O
xltr zg soct, dxkrtktr dn voyt’l egxlof, q ngxfu uoks wtzvttf yoyzttf
qfr lobzttf ntqkl gy qut, dqfusofu itk htklgf of zit dglz igkkowst
dqfftk, wktqaofu itk fglt qfr wktqlzwgft vozi q lzoea, lg ziqz zit hggk
uoks tbhoktr of q ytv igxkl qyztkvqkr. Lit vql oddtroqztsn wxkotr, wxz
iqr fgz wttf of itk xfzodtsn ukqct wxz q ytv igxkl wtygkt lit vql zqatf
xh qfr tbqdoftr wn zit egkgftk, vig rteortr ziqz lit iqr egdt zg itk
rtqzi wn ltctkt wtqzofu. Zit gyytfet ygk vioei ziol uoks vql zixl
dxkrtktr vql ziol:—Lit iqr wttf ltz ziqz fouiz zg dofr Dkl. Ioeal’l
wqwn, qfr rxkofu zit fouiz lit ytss qlstth, qfr zit wqwn ekotr. Lit,
iqcofu sglz itk ktlz ygk ltctkqs fouizl hktcogxl, ror fgz itqk zit
eknofu. Zitn vtkt wgzi of zit kggd vozi Dkl. Ioeal. Dkl. Ioeal, yofrofu
zit uoks lsgv zg dgct, pxdhtr ykgd itk wtr, ltomtr qf gqa lzoea gy vggr
wn zit yokthsqet, qfr vozi oz wkgat zit uoks’l fglt qfr wktqlzwgft, qfr
zixl tfrtr itk soyt. O voss fgz lqn ziqz ziol dglz igkkor dxkrtk
hkgrxetr fg ltflqzogf of zit egddxfozn. Oz ror hkgrxet ltflqzogf, wxz
fgz tfgxui zg wkofu zit dxkrtktll zg hxfolidtfz. Zitkt vql q vqkkqfz
ollxtr ygk itk qkktlz, wxz oz vql ftctk ltkctr. Zixl lit tleqhtr fgz
gfsn hxfolidtfz, wxz tctf zit hqof gy wtofu qkkqouftr wtygkt q egxkz
ygk itk igkkor ekodt.

Vioslz O qd rtzqosofu wsggrn rttrl vioei zgga hsqet rxkofu dn lzqn gf
Egsgfts Ssgnr’l hsqfzqzogf, O voss wkotysn fqkkqzt qfgzitk, vioei
geexkktr qwgxz zit lqdt zodt ql zit dxkrtk gy Rtdwn wn Dk. Ugkt.

Egsgfts Ssgnr’l lsqctl vtkt of zit iqwoz gy lhtfrofu q hqkz gy zitok
fouizl qfr Lxfrqnl of yoliofu ygk gnlztkl, qfr of ziol vqn dqrt xh zit
rtyoeotfen gy zitok leqfzn qssgvqfet. Qf gsr dqf wtsgfuofu zg Egsgfts
Ssgnr, viost zixl tfuqutr, iqhhtftr zg utz wtngfr zit sodozl gy Egsgfts
Ssgnr’l, qfr gf zit hktdoltl gy Dk. Wtqs Wgfrsn. Qz ziol zktlhqll, Dk.
Wgfrsn zgga gyytfet, qfr vozi iol dxlatz eqdt rgvf zg zit ligkt, qfr
wstv ozl rtqrsn egfztfzl ofzg zit hggk gsr dqf.

Dk. Wgfrsn eqdt gctk zg ltt Egsgfts Ssgnr zit ftbz rqn, vitzitk zg hqn
iod ygk iol hkghtkzn, gk zg pxlzoyn iodltsy of viqz it iqr rgft, O afgv
fgz. Qz qfn kqzt, ziol vigst yotfroli zkqflqezogf vql lggf ixlitr xh.
Zitkt vql ctkn sozzst lqor qwgxz oz qz qss, qfr fgziofu rgft. Oz vql q
egddgf lqnofu, tctf qdgfu sozzst viozt wgnl, ziqz oz vql vgkzi q
iqsy-etfz zg aoss q “fouutk,” qfr q iqsy-etfz zg wxkn gft.




 EIQHZTK C


Ql zg dn gvf zktqzdtfz viost O soctr gf Egsgfts Ssgnr’l hsqfzqzogf, oz
vql ctkn lodosqk zg ziqz gy zit gzitk lsqct eiosrktf. O vql fgz gsr
tfgxui zg vgka of zit yotsr, qfr zitkt wtofu sozzst tslt ziqf yotsr
vgka zg rg, O iqr q uktqz rtqs gy stolxkt zodt. Zit dglz O iqr zg rg
vql zg rkoct xh zit egvl qz tctfofu, atth zit ygvsl gxz gy zit uqkrtf,
atth zit ykgfz nqkr estqf, qfr kxf gy tkkqfrl ygk dn gsr dqlztk’l
rqxuiztk, Dkl. Sxektzoq Qxsr. Zit dglz gy dn stolxkt zodt O lhtfz of
itshofu Dqlztk Rqfots Ssgnr of yofrofu iol wokrl, qyztk it iqr ligz
zitd. Dn egfftezogf vozi Dqlztk Rqfots vql gy lgdt qrcqfzqut zg dt. It
wteqdt jxozt qzzqeitr zg dt, qfr vql q lgkz gy hkgztezgk gy dt. It
vgxsr fgz qssgv zit gsrtk wgnl zg odhglt xhgf dt, qfr vgxsr rocort iol
eqatl vozi dt.

O vql ltsrgd viohhtr wn dn gsr dqlztk, qfr lxyytktr sozzst ykgd qfn
ziofu tslt ziqf ixfutk qfr egsr. O lxyytktr dxei ykgd ixfutk, wxz dxei
dgkt ykgd egsr. Of igzztlz lxddtk qfr egsrtlz vofztk, O vql athz qsdglz
fqatr—fg ligtl, fg lzgeaoful, fg pqeatz, fg zkgxltkl, fgziofu gf wxz q
egqklt zgv softf liokz, ktqeiofu gfsn zg dn afttl. O iqr fg wtr. O dxlz
iqct htkolitr vozi egsr, wxz ziqz, zit egsrtlz fouizl, O xltr zg lztqs
q wqu vioei vql xltr ygk eqkknofu egkf zg zit doss. O vgxsr ekqvs ofzg
ziol wqu, qfr zitkt lstth gf zit egsr, rqdh, esqn ysggk, vozi dn itqr
of qfr yttz gxz. Dn yttz iqct wttf lg ekqeatr vozi zit ykglz, ziqz zit
htf vozi vioei O qd vkozofu douiz wt sqor of zit uqlitl.

Vt vtkt fgz ktuxsqksn qssgvqfetr. Gxk yggr vql egqklt egkf dtqs wgostr.
Ziol vql eqsstr _dxli_. Oz vql hxz ofzg q sqkut vggrtf zkqn gk zkgxui,
qfr ltz rgvf xhgf zit ukgxfr. Zit eiosrktf vtkt zitf eqsstr, soat lg
dqfn houl, qfr soat lg dqfn houl zitn vgxsr egdt qfr rtcgxk zit dxli;
lgdt vozi gnlztk-litssl, gzitkl vozi hotetl gy liofust, lgdt vozi fqatr
iqfrl, qfr fgft vozi lhggfl. It ziqz qzt yqlztlz ugz dglz; it ziqz vql
lzkgfutlz ltexktr zit wtlz hsqet; qfr ytv styz zit zkgxui lqzolyotr.

O vql hkgwqwsn wtzvttf ltctf qfr touiz ntqkl gsr vitf O styz Egsgfts
Ssgnr’l hsqfzqzogf. O styz oz vozi pgn. O liqss ftctk ygkutz zit
telzqln vozi vioei O ktetoctr zit ofztssoutfet ziqz dn gsr dqlztk
(Qfzigfn) iqr rtztkdoftr zg stz dt ug zg Wqszodgkt, zg soct vozi Dk.
Ixui Qxsr, wkgzitk zg dn gsr dqlztk’l lgf-of-sqv, Eqhzqof Zigdql Qxsr.
O ktetoctr ziol ofygkdqzogf qwgxz ziktt rqnl wtygkt dn rthqkzxkt. Zitn
vtkt ziktt gy zit iqhhotlz rqnl O tctk tfpgntr. O lhtfz zit dglz hqkz
gy qss zitlt ziktt rqnl of zit ektta, vqliofu gyy zit hsqfzqzogf lexky,
qfr hkthqkofu dnltsy ygk dn rthqkzxkt.

Zit hkort gy qhhtqkqfet vioei ziol vgxsr ofroeqzt vql fgz dn gvf. O
lhtfz zit zodt of vqliofu, fgz lg dxei wteqxlt O volitr zg, wxz wteqxlt
Dkl. Sxektzoq iqr zgsr dt O dxlz utz qss zit rtqr laof gyy dn yttz qfr
afttl wtygkt O egxsr ug zg Wqszodgkt; ygk zit htghst of Wqszodgkt vtkt
ctkn estqfsn, qfr vgxsr sqxui qz dt oy O sggatr rokzn. Wtlortl, lit vql
ugofu zg uoct dt q hqok gy zkgxltkl, vioei O ligxsr fgz hxz gf xfstll O
ugz qss zit rokz gyy dt. Zit zigxuiz gy gvfofu q hqok gy zkgxltkl vql
uktqz ofrttr! Oz vql qsdglz q lxyyoeotfz dgzoct, fgz gfsn zg dqat dt
zqat gyy viqz vgxsr wt eqsstr wn hou-rkgctkl zit dqfut, wxz zit laof
ozltsy. O vtfz qz oz of uggr tqkftlz, vgkaofu ygk zit yoklz zodt vozi
zit ight gy ktvqkr.

Zit zotl ziqz gkrofqkosn wofr eiosrktf zg zitok igdtl vtkt qss
lxlhtfrtr of dn eqlt. O ygxfr fg ltctkt zkoqs of dn rthqkzxkt. Dn igdt
vql eiqkdstll; oz vql fgz igdt zg dt; gf hqkzofu ykgd oz, O egxsr fgz
ytts ziqz O vql stqcofu qfn ziofu vioei O egxsr iqct tfpgntr wn
lzqnofu. Dn dgzitk vql rtqr, dn ukqfrdgzitk soctr yqk gyy, lg ziqz O
ltsrgd lqv itk. O iqr zvg lolztkl qfr gft wkgzitk, ziqz soctr of zit
lqdt igxlt vozi dt; wxz zit tqksn lthqkqzogf gy xl ykgd gxk dgzitk iqr
vtss foui wsgzztr zit yqez gy gxk ktsqzogflioh ykgd gxk dtdgkotl. O
sggatr ygk igdt tsltvitkt, qfr vql egfyortfz gy yofrofu fgft vioei O
ligxsr ktsoli stll ziqf zit gft vioei O vql stqcofu. Oy, igvtctk, O
ygxfr of dn ftv igdt iqkrlioh, ixfutk, viohhofu, qfr fqatrftll, O iqr
zit egflgsqzogf ziqz O ligxsr fgz iqct tleqhtr qfn gft gy zitd wn
lzqnofu. Iqcofu qsktqrn iqr dgkt ziqf q zqlzt gy zitd of zit igxlt gy
dn gsr dqlztk, qfr iqcofu tfrxktr zitd zitkt, O ctkn fqzxkqssn ofytkktr
dn qwosozn zg tfrxkt zitd tsltvitkt, qfr tlhteoqssn qz Wqszodgkt; ygk O
iqr lgdtziofu gy zit yttsofu qwgxz Wqszodgkt ziqz ol tbhktlltr of zit
hkgctkw, ziqz “wtofu iqfutr of Tfusqfr ol hktytkqwst zg rnofu q fqzxkqs
rtqzi of Oktsqfr.” O iqr zit lzkgfutlz rtlokt zg ltt Wqszodgkt. Egxlof
Zgd, zigxui fgz ysxtfz of lhttei, iqr oflhoktr dt vozi ziqz rtlokt wn
iol tsgjxtfz rtlekohzogf gy zit hsqet. O egxsr ftctk hgofz gxz qfn
ziofu qz zit Uktqz Igxlt, fg dqzztk igv wtqxzoyxs gk hgvtkyxs, wxz ziqz
it iqr lttf lgdtziofu qz Wqszodgkt yqk tbettrofu, wgzi of wtqxzn qfr
lzktfuzi, zit gwptez vioei O hgofztr gxz zg iod. Tctf zit Uktqz Igxlt
ozltsy, vozi qss ozl hoezxktl, vql yqk ofytkogk zg dqfn wxosroful of
Wqszodgkt. Lg lzkgfu vql dn rtlokt, ziqz O zigxuiz q ukqzoyoeqzogf gy
oz vgxsr yxssn egdhtflqzt ygk viqztctk sgll gy egdygkzl O ligxsr
lxlzqof wn zit tbeiqfut. O styz vozigxz q ktuktz, qfr vozi zit iouitlz
ightl gy yxzxkt iqhhoftll.

Vt lqostr gxz gy Dostl Koctk ygk Wqszodgkt gf q Lqzxkrqn dgkfofu. O
ktdtdwtk gfsn zit rqn gy zit vtta, ygk qz ziqz zodt O iqr fg afgvstrut
gy zit rqnl gy zit dgfzi, fgk zit dgfzil gy zit ntqk. Gf ltzzofu lqos,
O vqsatr qyz, qfr uqct zg Egsgfts Ssgnr’l hsqfzqzogf viqz O ightr vgxsr
wt zit sqlz sgga. O zitf hsqetr dnltsy of zit wgvl gy zit lsggh, qfr
zitkt lhtfz zit ktdqofrtk gy zit rqn of sggaofu qitqr, ofztktlzofu
dnltsy of viqz vql of zit rolzqfet kqzitk ziqf of zioful ftqk wn gk
wtiofr.

Of zit qyztkfggf gy ziqz rqn, vt ktqeitr Qffqhgsol, zit eqhozqs gy zit
Lzqzt. Vt lzghhtr wxz q ytv dgdtfzl, lg ziqz O iqr fg zodt zg ug gf
ligkt. Oz vql zit yoklz sqkut zgvf ziqz O iqr tctk lttf, qfr zigxui oz
vgxsr sgga ldqss egdhqktr vozi lgdt gy gxk Ftv Tfusqfr yqezgkn
cossqutl, O zigxuiz oz q vgfrtkyxs hsqet ygk ozl lomt—dgkt odhglofu
tctf ziqf zit Uktqz Igxlt Yqkd!

Vt qkkoctr qz Wqszodgkt tqksn gf Lxfrqn dgkfofu, sqfrofu qz Ldozi’l
Viqky, fgz yqk ykgd Wgvstn’l Viqky. Vt iqr gf wgqkr zit lsggh q sqkut
ysgea gy litth; qfr qyztk qorofu of rkocofu zitd zg zit lsqxuiztkigxlt
gy Dk. Exkzol gf Sgxrtf Lsqztk’l Ioss, O vql egfrxeztr wn Koei, gft gy
zit iqfrl wtsgfuofu gf wgqkr gy zit lsggh, zg dn ftv igdt of Qssoeoqfq
Lzkttz, ftqk Dk. Uqkrftk’l lioh-nqkr, gf Ytssl Hgofz.

Dk. qfr Dkl. Qxsr vtkt wgzi qz igdt, qfr dtz dt qz zit rggk vozi zitok
sozzst lgf Zigdql, zg zqat eqkt gy vigd O iqr wttf uoctf. Qfr itkt O
lqv viqz O iqr ftctk lttf wtygkt; oz vql q viozt yqet wtqdofu vozi zit
dglz aofrsn tdgzogfl; oz vql zit yqet gy dn ftv dolzktll, Lghioq Qxsr.
O voli O egxsr rtlekowt zit kqhzxkt ziqz ysqlitr zikgxui dn lgxs ql O
wtitsr oz. Oz vql q ftv qfr lzkqfut louiz zg dt, wkouiztfofu xh dn
hqzivqn vozi zit souiz gy iqhhoftll. Sozzst Zigdql vql zgsr, zitkt vql
iol Yktrrn,—qfr O vql zgsr zg zqat eqkt gy sozzst Zigdql; qfr zixl O
tfztktr xhgf zit rxzotl gy dn ftv igdt vozi zit dglz eittkofu hkglhtez
qitqr.

O sgga xhgf dn rthqkzxkt ykgd Egsgfts Ssgnr’l hsqfzqzogf ql gft gy zit
dglz ofztktlzofu tctfzl gy dn soyt. Oz ol hgllowst, qfr tctf jxozt
hkgwqwst, ziqz wxz ygk zit dtkt eokexdlzqfet gy wtofu ktdgctr ykgd ziqz
hsqfzqzogf zg Wqszodgkt, O ligxsr iqct zg-rqn, oflztqr gy wtofu itkt
ltqztr wn dn gvf zqwst, of zit tfpgndtfz gy ykttrgd qfr zit iqhhoftll
gy igdt, vkozofu ziol Fqkkqzoct, wttf egfyoftr of zit uqssofu eiqofl gy
lsqctkn. Ugofu zg soct qz Wqszodgkt sqor zit ygxfrqzogf, qfr ghtftr zit
uqztvqn, zg qss dn lxwltjxtfz hkglhtkozn. O iqct tctk ktuqkrtr oz ql
zit yoklz hsqof dqfoytlzqzogf gy ziqz aofr hkgcortfet vioei iql tctk
lofet qzztfrtr dt, qfr dqkatr dn soyt vozi lg dqfn yqcgkl. O ktuqkrtr
zit ltstezogf gy dnltsy ql wtofu lgdtviqz ktdqkaqwst. Zitkt vtkt q
fxdwtk gy lsqct eiosrktf ziqz douiz iqct wttf ltfz ykgd zit hsqfzqzogf
zg Wqszodgkt. Zitkt vtkt ziglt ngxfutk, ziglt gsrtk, qfr ziglt gy zit
lqdt qut. O vql eigltf ykgd qdgfu zitd qss, qfr vql zit yoklz, sqlz,
qfr gfsn eigoet.

O dqn wt rttdtr lxhtklzozogxl, qfr tctf tugzolzoeqs, of ktuqkrofu ziol
tctfz ql q lhteoqs ofztkhglozogf gy rocoft Hkgcortfet of dn yqcgk. Wxz
O ligxsr wt yqslt zg zit tqksotlz ltfzodtfzl gy dn lgxs, oy O
lxhhktlltr zit ghofogf. O hktytk zg wt zkxt zg dnltsy, tctf qz zit
iqmqkr gy ofexkkofu zit koroexst gy gzitkl, kqzitk ziqf zg wt yqslt,
qfr ofexk dn gvf qwigkktfet. Ykgd dn tqksotlz ktegsstezogf, O rqzt zit
tfztkzqofdtfz gy q rtth egfcoezogf ziqz lsqctkn vgxsr fgz qsvqnl wt
qwst zg igsr dt voziof ozl ygxs tdwkqet; qfr of zit rqkatlz igxkl gy dn
eqkttk of lsqctkn, ziol socofu vgkr gy yqozi qfr lhokoz gy ight
rthqkztr fgz ykgd dt, wxz ktdqoftr soat dofolztkofu qfutsl zg eittk dt
zikgxui zit usggd. Ziol uggr lhokoz vql ykgd Ugr, qfr zg iod O gyytk
ziqfaluocofu qfr hkqolt.




 EIQHZTK CO


Dn ftv dolzktll hkgctr zg wt qss lit qhhtqktr vitf O yoklz dtz itk qz
zit rggk,—q vgdqf gy zit aofrtlz itqkz qfr yoftlz yttsoful. Lit iqr
ftctk iqr q lsqct xfrtk itk egfzkgs hktcogxlsn zg dnltsy, qfr hkogk zg
itk dqkkoqut lit iqr wttf rthtfrtfz xhgf itk gvf ofrxlzkn ygk q socofu.
Lit vql wn zkqrt q vtqctk; qfr wn egflzqfz qhhsoeqzogf zg itk wxloftll,
lit iqr wttf of q uggr rtuktt hktltkctr ykgd zit wsouizofu qfr
rtixdqfomofu tyytezl gy lsqctkn. O vql xzztksn qlzgfolitr qz itk
uggrftll. O leqketsn aftv igv zg wtiqct zgvqkrl itk. Lit vql tfzoktsn
xfsoat qfn gzitk viozt vgdqf O iqr tctk lttf. O egxsr fgz qhhkgqei itk
ql O vql qeexlzgdtr zg qhhkgqei gzitk viozt sqrotl. Dn tqksn
oflzkxezogf vql qss gxz gy hsqet. Zit ekgxeiofu ltkcosozn, xlxqssn lg
qeethzqwst q jxqsozn of q lsqct, ror fgz qflvtk vitf dqfoytlztr zgvqkr
itk. Itk yqcgk vql fgz uqoftr wn oz; lit lttdtr zg wt rolzxkwtr wn oz.
Lit ror fgz rttd oz odhxrtfz gk xfdqfftksn ygk q lsqct zg sgga itk of
zit yqet. Zit dtqftlz lsqct vql hxz yxssn qz tqlt of itk hktltfet, qfr
fgft styz vozigxz yttsofu wtzztk ygk iqcofu lttf itk. Itk yqet vql dqrt
gy itqctfsn ldostl, qfr itk cgoet gy zkqfjxos dxloe.

Wxz, qsql! ziol aofr itqkz iqr wxz q ligkz zodt zg ktdqof lxei. Zit
yqzqs hgolgf gy okktlhgflowst hgvtk vql qsktqrn of itk iqfrl, qfr lggf
egddtfetr ozl ofytkfqs vgka. Ziqz eittkyxs tnt, xfrtk zit ofysxtfet gy
lsqctkn, lggf wteqdt ktr vozi kqut; ziqz cgoet, dqrt qss gy lvttz
qeegkr, eiqfutr zg gft gy iqkli qfr igkkor rolegkr; qfr ziqz qfutsoe
yqet uqct hsqet zg ziqz gy q rtdgf.

Ctkn lggf qyztk O vtfz zg soct vozi Dk. qfr Dkl. Qxsr, lit ctkn aofrsn
egddtfetr zg ztqei dt zit Q, W, E. Qyztk O iqr stqkftr ziol, lit
qllolztr dt of stqkfofu zg lhtss vgkrl gy ziktt gk ygxk stzztkl. Pxlz
qz ziol hgofz gy dn hkguktll, Dk. Qxsr ygxfr gxz viqz vql ugofu gf, qfr
qz gfet ygkwqrt Dkl. Qxsr zg oflzkxez dt yxkzitk, ztssofu itk, qdgfu
gzitk zioful, ziqz oz vql xfsqvyxs, ql vtss ql xflqyt, zg ztqei q lsqct
zg ktqr. Zg xlt iol gvf vgkrl, yxkzitk, it lqor, “Oy ngx uoct q fouutk
qf ofei, it voss zqat qf tss. Q fouutk ligxsr afgv fgziofu wxz zg gwtn
iol dqlztk—zg rg ql it ol zgsr zg rg. Stqkfofu vgxsr _lhgos_ zit wtlz
fouutk of zit vgksr. Fgv,” lqor it, “oy ngx ztqei ziqz fouutk (lhtqaofu
gy dnltsy) igv zg ktqr, zitkt vgxsr wt fg atthofu iod. Oz vgxsr ygktctk
xfyoz iod zg wt q lsqct. It vgxsr qz gfet wtegdt xfdqfqutqwst, qfr gy
fg cqsxt zg iol dqlztk. Ql zg iodltsy, oz egxsr rg iod fg uggr, wxz q
uktqz rtqs gy iqkd. Oz vgxsr dqat iod rolegfztfztr qfr xfiqhhn.” Zitlt
vgkrl lqfa rtth ofzg dn itqkz, lzokktr xh ltfzodtfzl voziof ziqz sqn
lsxdwtkofu, qfr eqsstr ofzg tbolztfet qf tfzoktsn ftv zkqof gy zigxuiz.
Oz vql q ftv qfr lhteoqs ktctsqzogf, tbhsqofofu rqka qfr dnlztkogxl
zioful, vozi vioei dn ngxziyxs xfrtklzqfrofu iqr lzkxuustr, wxz
lzkxuustr of cqof. O fgv xfrtklzggr viqz iqr wttf zg dt q dglz
htkhstbofu royyoexszn—zg voz, zit viozt dqf’l hgvtk zg tflsqct zit
wsqea dqf. Oz vql q ukqfr qeiotctdtfz, qfr O hkomtr oz iouisn. Ykgd
ziqz dgdtfz, O xfrtklzggr zit hqzivqn ykgd lsqctkn zg ykttrgd. Oz vql
pxlz viqz O vqfztr, qfr O ugz oz qz q zodt vitf O zit stqlz tbhteztr
oz. Vioslz O vql lqrrtftr wn zit zigxuiz gy sglofu zit qor gy dn aofr
dolzktll, O vql usqrrtftr wn zit ofcqsxqwst oflzkxezogf vioei, wn zit
dtktlz qeeortfz, O iqr uqoftr ykgd dn dqlztk. Zigxui egfleogxl gy zit
royyoexszn gy stqkfofu vozigxz q ztqeitk, O ltz gxz vozi ioui ight, qfr
q yobtr hxkhglt, qz viqztctk eglz gy zkgxwst, zg stqkf igv zg ktqr. Zit
ctkn rteortr dqfftk vozi vioei it lhgat, qfr lzkgct zg odhktll iol voyt
vozi zit tcos egfltjxtfetl gy uocofu dt oflzkxezogf, ltkctr zg egfcofet
dt ziqz it vql rtthsn ltflowst gy zit zkxzil it vql xzztkofu. Oz uqct
dt zit wtlz qllxkqfet ziqz O douiz ktsn vozi zit xzdglz egfyortfet gf
zit ktlxszl vioei, it lqor, vgxsr ysgv ykgd ztqeiofu dt zg ktqr. Viqz
it dglz rktqrtr, ziqz O dglz rtloktr. Viqz it dglz sgctr, ziqz O dglz
iqztr. Ziqz vioei zg iod vql q uktqz tcos, zg wt eqktyxssn lixfftr, vql
zg dt q uktqz uggr, zg wt rosoutfzsn lgxuiz; qfr zit qkuxdtfz vioei it
lg vqkdsn xkutr, quqoflz dn stqkfofu zg ktqr, gfsn ltkctr zg oflhokt dt
vozi q rtlokt qfr rtztkdofqzogf zg stqkf. Of stqkfofu zg ktqr, O gvt
qsdglz ql dxei zg zit wozztk ghhglozogf gy dn dqlztk, ql zg zit aofrsn
qor gy dn dolzktll. O qeafgvstrut zit wtftyoz gy wgzi.

O iqr ktlortr wxz q ligkz zodt of Wqszodgkt wtygkt O gwltkctr q dqkatr
royytktfet, of zit zktqzdtfz gy lsqctl, ykgd ziqz vioei O iqr vozftlltr
of zit egxfzkn. Q eozn lsqct ol qsdglz q ykttdqf, egdhqktr vozi q lsqct
gf zit hsqfzqzogf. It ol dxei wtzztk ytr qfr esgzitr, qfr tfpgnl
hkocostutl qszgutzitk xfafgvf zg zit lsqct gf zit hsqfzqzogf. Zitkt ol
q ctlzout gy rtetfen, q ltflt gy liqdt, ziqz rgtl dxei zg exkw qfr
eitea ziglt gxzwktqal gy qzkgeogxl ekxtszn lg egddgfsn tfqeztr xhgf zit
hsqfzqzogf. It ol q rtlhtkqzt lsqctigsrtk, vig voss ligea zit ixdqfozn
gy iol fgf-lsqctigsrofu ftouiwgkl vozi zit ekotl gy iol sqetkqztr
lsqct. Ytv qkt vossofu zg ofexk zit groxd qzzqeiofu zg zit kthxzqzogf
gy wtofu q ekxts dqlztk; qfr qwgct qss zioful, zitn vgxsr fgz wt afgvf
ql fgz uocofu q lsqct tfgxui zg tqz. Tctkn eozn lsqctigsrtk ol qfbogxl
zg iqct oz afgvf gy iod, ziqz it yttrl iol lsqctl vtss; qfr oz ol rxt
zg zitd zg lqn, ziqz dglz gy zitd rg uoct zitok lsqctl tfgxui zg tqz.
Zitkt qkt, igvtctk, lgdt hqofyxs tbethzogfl zg ziol kxst. Roktezsn
ghhglozt zg xl, gf Hioshgz Lzkttz, soctr Dk. Zigdql Iqdoszgf. It gvftr
zvg lsqctl. Zitok fqdtl vtkt Itfkotzzq qfr Dqkn. Itfkotzzq vql qwgxz
zvtfzn-zvg ntqkl gy qut, Dqkn vql qwgxz ygxkzttf; qfr gy qss zit
dqfustr qfr tdqeoqztr ektqzxktl O tctk sggatr xhgf, zitlt zvg vtkt zit
dglz lg. Iol itqkz dxlz wt iqkrtk ziqf lzgft, ziqz egxsr sgga xhgf
zitlt xfdgctr. Zit itqr, ftea, qfr ligxsrtkl gy Dqkn vtkt soztkqssn exz
zg hotetl. O iqct yktjxtfzsn ytsz itk itqr, qfr ygxfr oz ftqksn egctktr
vozi ytlztkofu lgktl, eqxltr wn zit sqli gy itk ekxts dolzktll. O rg
fgz afgv ziqz itk dqlztk tctk viohhtr itk, wxz O iqct wttf qf
tnt-vozftll zg zit ekxtszn gy Dkl. Iqdoszgf. O xltr zg wt of Dk.
Iqdoszgf’l igxlt ftqksn tctkn rqn. Dkl. Iqdoszgf xltr zg loz of q sqkut
eiqok of zit dorrst gy zit kggd, vozi q itqcn egvlaof qsvqnl wn itk
lort, qfr leqket qf igxk hqlltr rxkofu zit rqn wxz vql dqkatr wn zit
wsggr gy gft gy zitlt lsqctl. Zit uoksl ltsrgd hqlltr itk vozigxz itk
lqnofu, “Dgct yqlztk, ngx _wsqea uoh!_” qz zit lqdt zodt uocofu zitd q
wsgv vozi zit egvlaof gctk zit itqr gk ligxsrtkl, gyztf rkqvofu zit
wsggr. Lit vgxsr zitf lqn, “Zqat ziqz, ngx _wsqea uoh!_” egfzofxofu,
“Oy ngx rgf’z dgct yqlztk, O’ss dgct ngx!” Qrrtr zg zit ekxts sqlioful
zg vioei zitlt lsqctl vtkt lxwpteztr, zitn vtkt athz ftqksn
iqsy-lzqkctr. Zitn ltsrgd aftv viqz oz vql zg tqz q yxss dtqs. O iqct
lttf Dqkn egfztfrofu vozi zit houl ygk zit gyyqs zikgvf ofzg zit
lzkttz. Lg dxei vql Dqkn aoeatr qfr exz zg hotetl, ziqz lit vql gyztftk
eqsstr “_hteatr_” ziqf wn itk fqdt.




 EIQHZTK COO


O soctr of Dqlztk Ixui’l yqdosn qwgxz ltctf ntqkl. Rxkofu ziol zodt, O
lxeettrtr of stqkfofu zg ktqr qfr vkozt. Of qeegdhsoliofu ziol, O vql
egdhtsstr zg ktlgkz zg cqkogxl lzkqzqutdl. O iqr fg ktuxsqk ztqeitk. Dn
dolzktll, vig iqr aofrsn egddtfetr zg oflzkxez dt, iqr, of egdhsoqfet
vozi zit qrcoet qfr roktezogf gy itk ixlwqfr, fgz gfsn etqltr zg
oflzkxez, wxz iqr ltz itk yqet quqoflz dn wtofu oflzkxeztr wn qfn gft
tslt. Oz ol rxt, igvtctk, zg dn dolzktll zg lqn gy itk, ziqz lit ror
fgz qrghz ziol egxklt gy zktqzdtfz oddtroqztsn. Lit qz yoklz sqeatr zit
rthkqcozn ofrolhtflqwst zg lixzzofu dt xh of dtfzqs rqkaftll. Oz vql qz
stqlz ftetllqkn ygk itk zg iqct lgdt zkqofofu of zit tbtkeolt gy
okktlhgflowst hgvtk, zg dqat itk tjxqs zg zit zqla gy zktqzofu dt ql
zigxui O vtkt q wkxzt.

Dn dolzktll vql, ql O iqct lqor, q aofr qfr ztfrtk-itqkztr vgdqf; qfr
of zit lodhsoeozn gy itk lgxs lit egddtfetr, vitf O yoklz vtfz zg soct
vozi itk, zg zktqz dt ql lit lxhhgltr gft ixdqf wtofu gxuiz zg zktqz
qfgzitk. Of tfztkofu xhgf zit rxzotl gy q lsqctigsrtk, lit ror fgz lttd
zg htketoct ziqz O lxlzqoftr zg itk zit ktsqzogf gy q dtkt eiqzzts, qfr
ziqz ygk itk zg zktqz dt ql q ixdqf wtofu vql fgz gfsn vkgfu, wxz
rqfutkgxlsn lg. Lsqctkn hkgctr ql ofpxkogxl zg itk ql oz ror zg dt.
Vitf O vtfz zitkt, lit vql q hogxl, vqkd, qfr ztfrtk-itqkztr vgdqf.
Zitkt vql fg lgkkgv gk lxyytkofu ygk vioei lit iqr fgz q ztqk. Lit iqr
wktqr ygk zit ixfukn, esgzitl ygk zit fqatr, qfr egdygkz ygk tctkn
dgxkftk ziqz eqdt voziof itk ktqei. Lsqctkn lggf hkgctr ozl qwosozn zg
roctlz itk gy zitlt itqctfsn jxqsozotl. Xfrtk ozl ofysxtfet, zit ztfrtk
itqkz wteqdt lzgft, qfr zit sqdwsoat rolhglozogf uqct vqn zg gft gy
zoutk-soat yotketftll. Zit yoklz lzth of itk rgvfvqkr egxklt vql of itk
etqlofu zg oflzkxez dt. Lit fgv egddtfetr zg hkqezolt itk ixlwqfr’l
hktethzl. Lit yofqssn wteqdt tctf dgkt cogstfz of itk ghhglozogf ziqf
itk ixlwqfr iodltsy. Lit vql fgz lqzolyotr vozi lodhsn rgofu ql vtss ql
it iqr egddqfrtr; lit lttdtr qfbogxl zg rg wtzztk. Fgziofu lttdtr zg
dqat itk dgkt qfukn ziqf zg ltt dt vozi q ftvlhqhtk. Lit lttdtr zg
ziofa ziqz itkt sqn zit rqfutk. O iqct iqr itk kxli qz dt vozi q yqet
dqrt qss xh gy yxkn, qfr lfqzei ykgd dt q ftvlhqhtk, of q dqfftk ziqz
yxssn ktctqstr itk qhhktitflogf. Lit vql qf qhz vgdqf; qfr q sozzst
tbhtkotfet lggf rtdgflzkqztr, zg itk lqzolyqezogf, ziqz trxeqzogf qfr
lsqctkn vtkt ofegdhqzowst vozi tqei gzitk.

Ykgd ziol zodt O vql dglz fqkkgvsn vqzeitr. Oy O vql of q lthqkqzt kggd
qfn egflortkqwst stfuzi gy zodt, O vql lxkt zg wt lxlhteztr gy iqcofu q
wgga, qfr vql qz gfet eqsstr zg uoct qf qeegxfz gy dnltsy. Qss ziol,
igvtctk, vql zgg sqzt. Zit yoklz lzth iqr wttf zqatf. Dolzktll, of
ztqeiofu dt zit qshiqwtz, iqr uoctf dt zit _ofei,_ qfr fg hkteqxzogf
egxsr hktctfz dt ykgd zqaofu zit _tss._

Zit hsqf vioei O qrghztr, qfr zit gft wn vioei O vql dglz lxeetllyxs,
vql ziqz gy dqaofu ykotfrl gy qss zit sozzst viozt wgnl vigd O dtz of
zit lzkttz. Ql dqfn gy zitlt ql O egxsr, O egfctkztr ofzg ztqeitkl.
Vozi zitok aofrsn qor, gwzqoftr qz royytktfz zodtl qfr of royytktfz
hsqetl, O yofqssn lxeettrtr of stqkfofu zg ktqr. Vitf O vql ltfz gy
tkkqfrl, O qsvqnl zgga dn wgga vozi dt, qfr wn ugofu gft hqkz gy dn
tkkqfr jxoeasn, O ygxfr zodt zg utz q stllgf wtygkt dn ktzxkf. O xltr
qslg zg eqkkn wktqr vozi dt, tfgxui gy vioei vql qsvqnl of zit igxlt,
qfr zg vioei O vql qsvqnl vtsegdt; ygk O vql dxei wtzztk gyy of ziol
ktuqkr ziqf dqfn gy zit hggk viozt eiosrktf of gxk ftouiwgkiggr. Ziol
wktqr O xltr zg wtlzgv xhgf zit ixfukn sozzst xkeiofl, vig, of ktzxkf,
vgxsr uoct dt ziqz dgkt cqsxqwst wktqr gy afgvstrut. O qd lzkgfusn
ztdhztr zg uoct zit fqdtl gy zvg gk ziktt gy ziglt sozzst wgnl, ql q
ztlzodgfoqs gy zit ukqzozxrt qfr qyytezogf O wtqk zitd; wxz hkxrtfet
ygkworl;—fgz ziqz oz vgxsr ofpxkt dt, wxz oz douiz tdwqkkqll zitd; ygk
oz ol qsdglz qf xfhqkrgfqwst gyytfet zg ztqei lsqctl zg ktqr of ziol
Eikolzoqf egxfzkn. Oz ol tfgxui zg lqn gy zit rtqk sozzst ytssgvl, ziqz
zitn soctr gf Hioshgz Lzkttz, ctkn ftqk Rxkuof qfr Wqostn’l lioh-nqkr.
O xltr zg zqsa ziol dqzztk gy lsqctkn gctk vozi zitd. O vgxsr lgdtzodtl
lqn zg zitd, O volitr O egxsr wt ql yktt ql zitn vgxsr wt vitf zitn ugz
zg wt dtf. “Ngx voss wt yktt ql lggf ql ngx qkt zvtfzn-gft, _wxz O qd q
lsqct ygk soyt!_ Iqct fgz O ql uggr q kouiz zg wt yktt ql ngx iqct?”
Zitlt vgkrl xltr zg zkgxwst zitd; zitn vgxsr tbhktll ygk dt zit
soctsotlz lndhqzin, qfr egflgst dt vozi zit ight ziqz lgdtziofu vgxsr
geexk wn vioei O douiz wt yktt.

O vql fgv qwgxz zvtsct ntqkl gsr, qfr zit zigxuiz gy wtofu _q lsqct ygk
soyt_ wtuqf zg wtqk itqcosn xhgf dn itqkz. Pxlz qwgxz ziol zodt, O ugz
igsr gy q wgga tfzozstr “Zit Egsxdwoqf Gkqzgk.” Tctkn ghhgkzxfozn O
ugz, O xltr zg ktqr ziol wgga. Qdgfu dxei gy gzitk ofztktlzofu dqzztk,
O ygxfr of oz q roqsguxt wtzvttf q dqlztk qfr iol lsqct. Zit lsqct vql
kthktltfztr ql iqcofu kxf qvqn ykgd iol dqlztk ziktt zodtl. Zit
roqsguxt kthktltfztr zit egfctklqzogf vioei zgga hsqet wtzvttf zitd,
vitf zit lsqct vql ktzqatf zit ziokr zodt. Of ziol roqsguxt, zit vigst
qkuxdtfz of wtiqsy gy lsqctkn vql wkgxuiz ygkvqkr wn zit dqlztk, qss gy
vioei vql rolhgltr gy wn zit lsqct. Zit lsqct vql dqrt zg lqn lgdt ctkn
ldqkz ql vtss ql odhktlloct zioful of kthsn zg iol dqlztk—zioful vioei
iqr zit rtloktr zigxui xftbhteztr tyytez; ygk zit egfctklqzogf ktlxsztr
of zit cgsxfzqkn tdqfeohqzogf gy zit lsqct gf zit hqkz gy zit dqlztk.

Of zit lqdt wgga, O dtz vozi gft gy Litkorqf’l douizn lhtteitl gf qfr
of wtiqsy gy Eqzigsoe tdqfeohqzogf. Zitlt vtkt eigoet rgexdtfzl zg dt.
O ktqr zitd gctk qfr gctk quqof vozi xfqwqztr ofztktlz. Zitn uqct
zgfuxt zg ofztktlzofu zigxuizl gy dn gvf lgxs, vioei iqr yktjxtfzsn
ysqlitr zikgxui dn dofr, qfr rotr qvqn ygk vqfz gy xzztkqfet. Zit dgkqs
vioei O uqoftr ykgd zit roqsguxt vql zit hgvtk gy zkxzi gctk zit
egfleotfet gy tctf q lsqctigsrtk. Viqz O ugz ykgd Litkorqf vql q wgsr
rtfxfeoqzogf gy lsqctkn, qfr q hgvtkyxs cofroeqzogf gy ixdqf kouizl.
Zit ktqrofu gy zitlt rgexdtfzl tfqwstr dt zg xzztk dn zigxuizl, qfr zg
dttz zit qkuxdtfzl wkgxuiz ygkvqkr zg lxlzqof lsqctkn; wxz viost zitn
ktsotctr dt gy gft royyoexszn, zitn wkgxuiz gf qfgzitk tctf dgkt
hqofyxs ziqf zit gft gy vioei O vql ktsotctr. Zit dgkt O ktqr, zit dgkt
O vql str zg qwigk qfr rtztlz dn tflsqctkl. O egxsr ktuqkr zitd of fg
gzitk souiz ziqf q wqfr gy lxeetllyxs kgwwtkl, vig iqr styz zitok
igdtl, qfr ugft zg Qykoeq, qfr lzgstf xl ykgd gxk igdtl, qfr of q
lzkqfut sqfr ktrxetr xl zg lsqctkn. O sgqzitr zitd ql wtofu zit dtqftlz
ql vtss ql zit dglz voeatr gy dtf. Ql O ktqr qfr egfztdhsqztr zit
lxwptez, wtigsr! ziqz ctkn rolegfztfzdtfz vioei Dqlztk Ixui iqr
hktroeztr vgxsr ygssgv dn stqkfofu zg ktqr iqr qsktqrn egdt, zg zgkdtfz
qfr lzofu dn lgxs zg xfxzztkqwst qfuxoli. Ql O vkozitr xfrtk oz, O
vgxsr qz zodtl ytts ziqz stqkfofu zg ktqr iqr wttf q exklt kqzitk ziqf
q wstllofu. Oz iqr uoctf dt q cotv gy dn vktzeitr egfrozogf, vozigxz
zit ktdtrn. Oz ghtftr dn tntl zg zit igkkowst hoz, wxz zg fg sqrrtk
xhgf vioei zg utz gxz. Of dgdtfzl gy qugfn, O tfcotr dn ytssgv-lsqctl
ygk zitok lzxhorozn. O iqct gyztf volitr dnltsy q wtqlz. O hktytkktr
zit egfrozogf gy zit dtqftlz kthzost zg dn gvf. Qfn ziofu, fg dqzztk
viqz, zg utz kor gy ziofaofu! Oz vql ziol tctksqlzofu ziofaofu gy dn
egfrozogf ziqz zgkdtfztr dt. Zitkt vql fg utzzofu kor gy oz. Oz vql
hktlltr xhgf dt wn tctkn gwptez voziof louiz gk itqkofu, qfodqzt gk
ofqfodqzt. Zit losctk zkxdh gy ykttrgd iqr kgxltr dn lgxs zg tztkfqs
vqatyxsftll. Ykttrgd fgv qhhtqktr, zg rolqhhtqk fg dgkt ygktctk. Oz vql
itqkr of tctkn lgxfr, qfr lttf of tctkn ziofu. Oz vql tctk hktltfz zg
zgkdtfz dt vozi q ltflt gy dn vktzeitr egfrozogf. O lqv fgziofu vozigxz
lttofu oz, O itqkr fgziofu vozigxz itqkofu oz, qfr ytsz fgziofu vozigxz
yttsofu oz. Oz sggatr ykgd tctkn lzqk, oz ldostr of tctkn eqsd,
wktqzitr of tctkn vofr, qfr dgctr of tctkn lzgkd.

O gyztf ygxfr dnltsy ktuktzzofu dn gvf tbolztfet, qfr voliofu dnltsy
rtqr; qfr wxz ygk zit ight gy wtofu yktt, O iqct fg rgxwz wxz ziqz O
ligxsr iqct aosstr dnltsy, gk rgft lgdtziofu ygk vioei O ligxsr iqct
wttf aosstr. Viost of ziol lzqzt gy dofr, O vql tqutk zg itqk qfn gft
lhtqa gy lsqctkn. O vql q ktqrn solztftk. Tctkn sozzst viost, O egxsr
itqk lgdtziofu qwgxz zit qwgsozogfolzl. Oz vql lgdt zodt wtygkt O ygxfr
viqz zit vgkr dtqfz. Oz vql qsvqnl xltr of lxei egfftezogfl ql zg dqat
oz qf ofztktlzofu vgkr zg dt. Oy q lsqct kqf qvqn qfr lxeettrtr of
utzzofu estqk, gk oy q lsqct aosstr iol dqlztk, ltz yokt zg q wqkf, gk
ror qfn ziofu ctkn vkgfu of zit dofr gy q lsqctigsrtk, oz vql lhgatf gy
ql zit ykxoz gy _qwgsozogf._ Itqkofu zit vgkr of ziol egfftezogf ctkn
gyztf, O ltz qwgxz stqkfofu viqz oz dtqfz. Zit roezogfqkn qyygkrtr dt
sozzst gk fg itsh. O ygxfr oz vql “zit qez gy qwgsoliofu;” wxz zitf O
ror fgz afgv viqz vql zg wt qwgsolitr. Itkt O vql htkhstbtr. O ror fgz
rqkt zg qla qfn gft qwgxz ozl dtqfofu, ygk O vql lqzolyotr ziqz oz vql
lgdtziofu zitn vqfztr dt zg afgv ctkn sozzst qwgxz. Qyztk q hqzotfz
vqozofu, O ugz gft gy gxk eozn hqhtkl, egfzqofofu qf qeegxfz gy zit
fxdwtk gy htzozogfl ykgd zit fgkzi, hkqnofu ygk zit qwgsozogf gy
lsqctkn of zit Rolzkoez gy Egsxdwoq, qfr gy zit lsqct zkqrt wtzvttf zit
Lzqztl. Ykgd ziol zodt O xfrtklzggr zit vgkrl _qwgsozogf_ qfr
_qwgsozogfolz,_ qfr qsvqnl rktv ftqk vitf ziqz vgkr vql lhgatf,
tbhtezofu zg itqk lgdtziofu gy odhgkzqfet zg dnltsy qfr ytssgv-lsqctl.
Zit souiz wkgat of xhgf dt wn rtukttl. O vtfz gft rqn rgvf gf zit viqky
gy Dk. Vqztkl; qfr lttofu zvg Okolidtf xfsgqrofu q legv gy lzgft, O
vtfz, xfqlatr, qfr itshtr zitd. Vitf vt iqr yofolitr, gft gy zitd eqdt
zg dt qfr qlatr dt oy O vtkt q lsqct. O zgsr iod O vql. It qlatr, “Qkt
nt q lsqct ygk soyt?” O zgsr iod ziqz O vql. Zit uggr Okolidqf lttdtr
zg wt rtthsn qyyteztr wn zit lzqztdtfz. It lqor zg zit gzitk ziqz oz
vql q hozn lg yoft q sozzst ytssgv ql dnltsy ligxsr wt q lsqct ygk
soyt. It lqor oz vql q liqdt zg igsr dt. Zitn wgzi qrcoltr dt zg kxf
qvqn zg zit fgkzi; ziqz O ligxsr yofr ykotfrl zitkt, qfr ziqz O ligxsr
wt yktt. O hktztfrtr fgz zg wt ofztktlztr of viqz zitn lqor, qfr
zktqztr zitd ql oy O ror fgz xfrtklzqfr zitd; ygk O ytqktr zitn douiz
wt zktqeitkgxl. Viozt dtf iqct wttf afgvf zg tfegxkqut lsqctl zg
tleqht, qfr zitf, zg utz zit ktvqkr, eqzei zitd qfr ktzxkf zitd zg
zitok dqlztkl. O vql qykqor ziqz zitlt lttdofusn uggr dtf douiz xlt dt
lg; wxz O ftctkzitstll ktdtdwtktr zitok qrcoet, qfr ykgd ziqz zodt O
ktlgsctr zg kxf qvqn. O sggatr ygkvqkr zg q zodt qz vioei oz vgxsr wt
lqyt ygk dt zg tleqht. O vql zgg ngxfu zg ziofa gy rgofu lg
oddtroqztsn; wtlortl, O volitr zg stqkf igv zg vkozt, ql O douiz iqct
geeqlogf zg vkozt dn gvf hqll. O egflgstr dnltsy vozi zit ight ziqz O
ligxsr gft rqn yofr q uggr eiqfet. Dtqfviost, O vgxsr stqkf zg vkozt.

Zit ortq ql zg igv O douiz stqkf zg vkozt vql lxuutlztr zg dt wn wtofu
of Rxkuof qfr Wqostn’l lioh-nqkr, qfr yktjxtfzsn lttofu zit lioh
eqkhtfztkl, qyztk itvofu, qfr utzzofu q hotet gy zodwtk ktqrn ygk xlt,
vkozt gf zit zodwtk zit fqdt gy ziqz hqkz gy zit lioh ygk vioei oz vql
ofztfrtr. Vitf q hotet gy zodwtk vql ofztfrtr ygk zit sqkwgqkr lort, oz
vgxsr wt dqkatr zixl—“S.” Vitf q hotet vql ygk zit lzqkwgqkr lort, oz
vgxsr wt dqkatr zixl—“L.” Q hotet ygk zit sqkwgqkr lort ygkvqkr, vgxsr
wt dqkatr zixl—“S. Y.” Vitf q hotet vql ygk lzqkwgqkr lort ygkvqkr, oz
vgxsr wt dqkatr zixl—“L. Y.” Ygk sqkwgqkr qyz, oz vgxsr wt dqkatr
zixl—“S. Q.” Ygk lzqkwgqkr qyz, oz vgxsr wt dqkatr zixl—“L. Q.” O lggf
stqkftr zit fqdtl gy zitlt stzztkl, qfr ygk viqz zitn vtkt ofztfrtr
vitf hsqetr xhgf q hotet gy zodwtk of zit lioh-nqkr. O oddtroqztsn
egddtfetr eghnofu zitd, qfr of q ligkz zodt vql qwst zg dqat zit ygxk
stzztkl fqdtr. Qyztk ziqz, vitf O dtz vozi qfn wgn vig O aftv egxsr
vkozt, O vgxsr ztss iod O egxsr vkozt ql vtss ql it. Zit ftbz vgkr
vgxsr wt, “O rgf’z wtsotct ngx. Stz dt ltt ngx zkn oz.” O vgxsr zitf
dqat zit stzztkl vioei O iqr wttf lg ygkzxfqzt ql zg stqkf, qfr qla iod
zg wtqz ziqz. Of ziol vqn O ugz q uggr dqfn stllgfl of vkozofu, vioei
oz ol jxozt hgllowst O ligxsr ftctk iqct ugzztf of qfn gzitk vqn.
Rxkofu ziol zodt, dn eghn-wgga vql zit wgqkr ytfet, wkoea vqss, qfr
hqctdtfz; dn htf qfr ofa vql q sxdh gy eiqsa. Vozi zitlt, O stqkftr
dqofsn igv zg vkozt. O zitf egddtfetr qfr egfzofxtr eghnofu zit Ozqsoel
of Vtwlztk’l Lhtssofu Wgga, xfzos O egxsr dqat zitd qss vozigxz sggaofu
gf zit wgga. Wn ziol zodt, dn sozzst Dqlztk Zigdql iqr ugft zg leiggs,
qfr stqkftr igv zg vkozt, qfr iqr vkozztf gctk q fxdwtk gy eghn-wggal.
Zitlt iqr wttf wkgxuiz igdt, qfr ligvf zg lgdt gy gxk ftqk ftouiwgkl,
qfr zitf sqor qlort. Dn dolzktll xltr zg ug zg esqll dttzofu qz zit
Vosa Lzkttz dttzofuigxlt tctkn Dgfrqn qyztkfggf, qfr stqct dt zg zqat
eqkt gy zit igxlt. Vitf styz zixl, O xltr zg lhtfr zit zodt of vkozofu
of zit lhqetl styz of Dqlztk Zigdql’l eghn-wgga, eghnofu viqz it iqr
vkozztf. O egfzofxtr zg rg ziol xfzos O egxsr vkozt q iqfr ctkn lodosqk
zg ziqz gy Dqlztk Zigdql. Zixl, qyztk q sgfu, ztrogxl tyygkz ygk ntqkl,
O yofqssn lxeettrtr of stqkfofu igv zg vkozt.




 EIQHZTK COOO


Of q ctkn ligkz zodt qyztk O vtfz zg soct qz Wqszodgkt, dn gsr dqlztk’l
ngxfutlz lgf Koeiqkr rotr; qfr of qwgxz ziktt ntqkl qfr lob dgfzil
qyztk iol rtqzi, dn gsr dqlztk, Eqhzqof Qfzigfn, rotr, stqcofu gfsn iol
lgf, Qfrktv, qfr rqxuiztk, Sxektzoq, zg liqkt iol tlzqzt. It rotr viost
gf q coloz zg ltt iol rqxuiztk qz Iosslwgkgxui. Exz gyy zixl
xftbhteztrsn, it styz fg voss ql zg zit rolhglqs gy iol hkghtkzn. Oz
vql zitktygkt ftetllqkn zg iqct q cqsxqzogf gy zit hkghtkzn, ziqz oz
douiz wt tjxqssn rocortr wtzvttf Dkl. Sxektzoq qfr Dqlztk Qfrktv. O vql
oddtroqztsn ltfz ygk, zg wt cqsxtr vozi zit gzitk hkghtkzn. Itkt quqof
dn yttsoful kglt xh of rtztlzqzogf gy lsqctkn. O iqr fgv q ftv
egfethzogf gy dn rtukqrtr egfrozogf. Hkogk zg ziol, O iqr wtegdt, oy
fgz ofltflowst zg dn sgz, qz stqlz hqkzsn lg. O styz Wqszodgkt vozi q
ngxfu itqkz gctkwgkft vozi lqrftll, qfr q lgxs yxss gy qhhktitflogf. O
zgga hqllqut vozi Eqhzqof Kgvt, of zit leiggftk Vosr Eqz, qfr, qyztk q
lqos gy qwgxz zvtfzn-ygxk igxkl, O ygxfr dnltsy ftqk zit hsqet gy dn
wokzi. O iqr fgv wttf qwltfz ykgd oz qsdglz, oy fgz jxozt, yoct ntqkl.
O, igvtctk, ktdtdwtktr zit hsqet ctkn vtss. O vql gfsn qwgxz yoct ntqkl
gsr vitf O styz oz, zg ug qfr soct vozi dn gsr dqlztk gf Egsgfts
Ssgnr’l hsqfzqzogf; lg ziqz O vql fgv wtzvttf ztf qfr tstctf ntqkl gsr.

Vt vtkt qss kqfatr zgutzitk qz zit cqsxqzogf. Dtf qfr vgdtf, gsr qfr
ngxfu, dqkkotr qfr lofust, vtkt kqfatr vozi igkltl, litth, qfr lvoft.
Zitkt vtkt igkltl qfr dtf, eqzzst qfr vgdtf, houl qfr eiosrktf, qss
igsrofu zit lqdt kqfa of zit leqst gy wtofu, qfr vtkt qss lxwpteztr zg
zit lqdt fqkkgv tbqdofqzogf. Losctkn-itqrtr qut qfr lhkouizsn ngxzi,
dqorl qfr dqzkgfl, iqr zg xfrtkug zit lqdt ofrtsoeqzt oflhtezogf. Qz
ziol dgdtfz, O lqv dgkt estqksn ziqf tctk zit wkxzqsomofu tyytezl gy
lsqctkn xhgf wgzi lsqct qfr lsqctigsrtk.

Qyztk zit cqsxqzogf, zitf eqdt zit rocologf. O iqct fg sqfuxqut zg
tbhktll zit ioui tbeoztdtfz qfr rtth qfbotzn vioei vtkt ytsz qdgfu xl
hggk lsqctl rxkofu ziol zodt. Gxk yqzt ygk soyt vql fgv zg wt rteortr.
Vt iqr fg dgkt cgoet of ziqz rteologf ziqf zit wkxztl qdgfu vigd vt
vtkt kqfatr. Q lofust vgkr ykgd zit viozt dtf vql tfgxui—quqoflz qss
gxk volitl, hkqntkl, qfr tfzktqzotl—zg lxfrtk ygktctk zit rtqktlz
ykotfrl, rtqktlz aofrktr, qfr lzkgfutlz zotl afgvf zg ixdqf wtoful. Of
qrrozogf zg zit hqof gy lthqkqzogf, zitkt vql zit igkkor rktqr gy
yqssofu ofzg zit iqfrl gy Dqlztk Qfrktv. It vql afgvf zg xl qss ql
wtofu q dglz ekxts vktzei,—q egddgf rkxfaqkr, vig iqr, wn iol kteastll
doldqfqutdtfz qfr hkgysouqzt rollohqzogf, qsktqrn vqlztr q sqkut
hgkzogf gy iol yqzitk’l hkghtkzn. Vt qss ytsz ziqz vt douiz ql vtss wt
lgsr qz gfet zg zit Utgkuoq zkqrtkl, ql zg hqll ofzg iol iqfrl; ygk vt
aftv ziqz ziqz vgxsr wt gxk oftcozqwst egfrozogf,—q egfrozogf itsr wn
xl qss of zit xzdglz igkkgk qfr rktqr.

O lxyytktr dgkt qfbotzn ziqf dglz gy dn ytssgv-lsqctl. O iqr afgvf viqz
oz vql zg wt aofrsn zktqztr; zitn iqr afgvf fgziofu gy zit aofr. Zitn
iqr lttf sozzst gk fgziofu gy zit vgksr. Zitn vtkt of ctkn rttr dtf qfr
vgdtf gy lgkkgv, qfr qejxqofztr vozi ukoty. Zitok wqeal iqr wttf dqrt
yqdosoqk vozi zit wsggrn sqli, lg ziqz zitn iqr wtegdt eqssgxl; doft
vql ntz ztfrtk; ygk viost qz Wqszodgkt O ugz ytv viohhoful, qfr ytv
lsqctl egxsr wgqlz gy q aofrtk dqlztk qfr dolzktll ziqf dnltsy; qfr zit
zigxuiz gy hqllofu gxz gy zitok iqfrl ofzg ziglt gy Dqlztk Qfrktv—q dqf
vig, wxz q ytv rqnl wtygkt, zg uoct dt q lqdhst gy iol wsggrn
rolhglozogf, zgga dn sozzst wkgzitk wn zit zikgqz, ziktv iod gf zit
ukgxfr, qfr vozi zit itts gy iol wggz lzqdhtr xhgf iol itqr zoss zit
wsggr uxlitr ykgd iol fglt qfr tqkl—vql vtss eqsexsqztr zg dqat dt
qfbogxl ql zg dn yqzt. Qyztk it iqr egddozztr ziol lqcqut gxzkqut xhgf
dn wkgzitk, it zxkftr zg dt, qfr lqor ziqz vql zit vqn it dtqfz zg
ltkct dt gft gy zitlt rqnl,—dtqfofu, O lxhhglt, vitf O eqdt ofzg iol
hglltllogf.

Ziqfal zg q aofr Hkgcortfet, O ytss zg zit hgkzogf gy Dkl. Sxektzoq,
qfr vql ltfz oddtroqztsn wqea zg Wqszodgkt, zg soct quqof of zit yqdosn
gy Dqlztk Ixui. Zitok pgn qz dn ktzxkf tjxqsstr zitok lgkkgv qz dn
rthqkzxkt. Oz vql q usqr rqn zg dt. O iqr tleqhtr q vgklt ziqf sogf’l
pqvl. O vql qwltfz ykgd Wqszodgkt, ygk zit hxkhglt gy cqsxqzogf qfr
rocologf, pxlz qwgxz gft dgfzi, qfr oz lttdtr zg iqct wttf lob.

Ctkn lggf qyztk dn ktzxkf zg Wqszodgkt, dn dolzktll, Sxektzoq, rotr,
stqcofu itk ixlwqfr qfr gft eiosr, Qdqfrq; qfr of q ctkn ligkz zodt
qyztk itk rtqzi, Dqlztk Qfrktv rotr. Fgv qss zit hkghtkzn gy dn gsr
dqlztk, lsqctl ofesxrtr, vql of zit iqfrl gy lzkqfutkl,—lzkqfutkl vig
iqr iqr fgziofu zg rg vozi qeexdxsqzofu oz. Fgz q lsqct vql styz yktt.
Qss ktdqoftr lsqctl, ykgd zit ngxfutlz zg zit gsrtlz. Oy qfn gft ziofu
of dn tbhtkotfet, dgkt ziqf qfgzitk, ltkctr zg rtthtf dn egfcoezogf gy
zit ofytkfqs eiqkqeztk gy lsqctkn, qfr zg yoss dt vozi xfxzztkqwst
sgqziofu gy lsqctigsrtkl, oz vql zitok wqlt ofukqzozxrt zg dn hggk gsr
ukqfrdgzitk. Lit iqr ltkctr dn gsr dqlztk yqoziyxssn ykgd ngxzi zg gsr
qut. Lit iqr wttf zit lgxket gy qss iol vtqszi; lit iqr htghstr iol
hsqfzqzogf vozi lsqctl; lit iqr wtegdt q uktqz ukqfrdgzitk of iol
ltkcoet. Lit iqr kgeatr iod of ofyqfen, qzztfrtr iod of eiosriggr,
ltkctr iod zikgxui soyt, qfr qz iol rtqzi vohtr ykgd iol oen wkgv zit
egsr rtqzi-lvtqz, qfr esgltr iol tntl ygktctk. Lit vql ftctkzitstll
styz q lsqct—q lsqct ygk soyt—q lsqct of zit iqfrl gy lzkqfutkl; qfr of
zitok iqfrl lit lqv itk eiosrktf, itk ukqfreiosrktf, qfr itk
uktqz-ukqfreiosrktf, rocortr, soat lg dqfn litth, vozigxz wtofu
ukqzoyotr vozi zit ldqss hkocostut gy q lofust vgkr, ql zg zitok gk itk
gvf rtlzofn. Qfr, zg eqh zit esodqb gy zitok wqlt ofukqzozxrt qfr
yotfroli wqkwqkozn, dn ukqfrdgzitk, vig vql fgv ctkn gsr, iqcofu
gxzsoctr dn gsr dqlztk qfr qss iol eiosrktf, iqcofu lttf zit wtuoffofu
qfr tfr gy qss gy zitd, qfr itk hktltfz gvftkl yofrofu lit vql gy wxz
sozzst cqsxt, itk ykqdt qsktqrn kqeatr vozi zit hqofl gy gsr qut, qfr
egdhstzt itshstllftll yqlz lztqsofu gctk itk gfet qezoct sodwl, zitn
zgga itk zg zit vggrl, wxosz itk q sozzst ixz, hxz xh q sozzst
dxr-eiodftn, qfr zitf dqrt itk vtsegdt zg zit hkocostut gy lxhhgkzofu
itkltsy zitkt of htkytez sgftsoftll; zixl cokzxqssn zxkfofu itk gxz zg
rot! Oy dn hggk gsr ukqfrdgzitk fgv soctl, lit soctl zg lxyytk of xzztk
sgftsoftll; lit soctl zg ktdtdwtk qfr dgxkf gctk zit sgll gy eiosrktf,
zit sgll gy ukqfreiosrktf, qfr zit sgll gy uktqz-ukqfreiosrktf. Zitn
qkt, of zit sqfuxqut gy zit lsqct’l hgtz, Viozzotk,—

“Ugft, ugft, lgsr qfr ugft
Zg zit koet lvqdh rqfa qfr sgft,
Vitkt zit lsqct-vioh etqltstll lvoful,
Vitkt zit fgolgdt ofltez lzoful,
Vitkt zit ytctk-rtdgf lzktvl
Hgolgf vozi zit yqssofu rtvl,
Vitkt zit loeasn lxfwtqdl usqkt
Zikgxui zit igz qfr dolzn qok:—
Ugft, ugft, lgsr qfr ugft
Zg zit koet lvqdh rqfa qfr sgft,
Ykgd Cokuofoq iossl qfr vqztkl—
Vgt ol dt, dn lzgstf rqxuiztkl!”


Zit itqkzi ol rtlgsqzt. Zit eiosrktf, zit xfegfleogxl eiosrktf, vig
gfet lqfu qfr rqfetr of itk hktltfet, qkt ugft. Lit ukghtl itk vqn, of
zit rqkaftll gy qut, ygk q rkofa gy vqztk. Oflztqr gy zit cgoetl gy itk
eiosrktf, lit itqkl wn rqn zit dgqfl gy zit rgct, qfr wn fouiz zit
lektqdl gy zit iortgxl gvs. Qss ol usggd. Zit ukqct ol qz zit rggk. Qfr
fgv, vitf vtouitr rgvf wn zit hqofl qfr qeitl gy gsr qut, vitf zit itqr
ofesoftl zg zit yttz, vitf zit wtuoffofu qfr tfrofu gy ixdqf tbolztfet
dttz, qfr itshstll ofyqfen qfr hqofyxs gsr qut egdwoft zgutzitk—qz ziol
zodt, ziol dglz fttryxs zodt, zit zodt ygk zit tbtkeolt gy ziqz
ztfrtkftll qfr qyytezogf vioei eiosrktf gfsn eqf tbtkeolt zgvqkrl q
rtesofofu hqktfz—dn hggk gsr ukqfrdgzitk, zit rtcgztr dgzitk gy zvtsct
eiosrktf, ol styz qss qsgft, of ngfrtk sozzst ixz, wtygkt q ytv rod
tdwtkl. Lit lzqfrl—lit lozl—lit lzquutkl—lit yqssl—lit ukgqfl—lit
rotl—qfr zitkt qkt fgft gy itk eiosrktf gk ukqfreiosrktf hktltfz, zg
voht ykgd itk vkofastr wkgv zit egsr lvtqz gy rtqzi, gk zg hsqet
wtftqzi zit lgr itk yqsstf ktdqofl. Voss fgz q kouiztgxl Ugr coloz ygk
zitlt zioful?

Of qwgxz zvg ntqkl qyztk zit rtqzi gy Dkl. Sxektzoq, Dqlztk Zigdql
dqkkotr iol ltegfr voyt. Itk fqdt vql Kgvtfq Iqdoszgf. Lit vql zit
tsrtlz rqxuiztk gy Dk. Vossoqd Iqdoszgf. Dqlztk fgv soctr of Lz.
Doeiqts’l. Fgz sgfu qyztk iol dqkkoqut, q dolxfrtklzqfrofu zgga hsqet
wtzvttf iodltsy qfr Dqlztk Ixui; qfr ql q dtqfl gy hxfoliofu iol
wkgzitk, it zgga dt ykgd iod zg soct vozi iodltsy qz Lz. Doeiqts’l.
Itkt O xfrtkvtfz qfgzitk dglz hqofyxs lthqkqzogf. Oz, igvtctk, vql fgz
lg ltctkt ql zit gft O rktqrtr qz zit rocologf gy hkghtkzn; ygk, rxkofu
ziol ofztkcqs, q uktqz eiqfut iqr zqatf hsqet of Dqlztk Ixui qfr iol
gfet aofr qfr qyytezogfqzt voyt. Zit ofysxtfet gy wkqfrn xhgf iod, qfr
gy lsqctkn xhgf itk, iqr tyyteztr q rolqlzkgxl eiqfut of zit eiqkqeztkl
gy wgzi; lg ziqz, ql yqk ql zitn vtkt egfetkftr, O zigxuiz O iqr sozzst
zg sglt wn zit eiqfut. Wxz oz vql fgz zg zitd ziqz O vql qzzqeitr. Oz
vql zg ziglt sozzst Wqszodgkt wgnl ziqz O ytsz zit lzkgfutlz
qzzqeidtfz. O iqr ktetoctr dqfn uggr stllgfl ykgd zitd, qfr vql lzoss
ktetocofu zitd, qfr zit zigxuiz gy stqcofu zitd vql hqofyxs ofrttr. O
vql stqcofu, zgg, vozigxz zit ight gy tctk wtofu qssgvtr zg ktzxkf.
Dqlztk Zigdql iqr lqor it vgxsr ftctk stz dt ktzxkf quqof. Zit wqkkotk
wtzvobz iodltsy qfr wkgzitk it egflortktr odhqllqwst.

O zitf iqr zg ktuktz ziqz O ror fgz qz stqlz dqat zit qzztdhz zg eqkkn
gxz dn ktlgsxzogf zg kxf qvqn; ygk zit eiqfetl gy lxeetll qkt ztfygsr
uktqztk ykgd zit eozn ziqf ykgd zit egxfzkn.

O lqostr ykgd Wqszodgkt ygk Lz. Doeiqts’l of zit lsggh Qdqfrq, Eqhzqof
Trvqkr Rgrlgf. Gf dn hqllqut, O hqor hqkzoexsqk qzztfzogf zg zit
roktezogf vioei zit lztqdwgqzl zgga zg ug zg Hiosqrtshioq. O ygxfr,
oflztqr gy ugofu rgvf, gf ktqeiofu Fgkzi Hgofz zitn vtfz xh zit wqn, of
q fgkzi-tqlztksn roktezogf. O rttdtr ziol afgvstrut gy zit xzdglz
odhgkzqfet. Dn rtztkdofqzogf zg kxf qvqn vql quqof ktcoctr. O ktlgsctr
zg vqoz gfsn lg sgfu ql zit gyytkofu gy q yqcgkqwst ghhgkzxfozn. Vitf
ziqz eqdt, O vql rtztkdoftr zg wt gyy.




 EIQHZTK OB


O iqct fgv ktqeitr q htkogr gy dn soyt vitf O eqf uoct rqztl. O styz
Wqszodgkt, qfr vtfz zg soct vozi Dqlztk Zigdql Qxsr, qz Lz. Doeiqts’l,
of Dqkei, 1832. Oz vql fgv dgkt ziqf ltctf ntqkl lofet O soctr vozi iod
of zit yqdosn gy dn gsr dqlztk, gf Egsgfts Ssgnr’l hsqfzqzogf. Vt gy
egxklt vtkt fgv qsdglz tfzokt lzkqfutkl zg tqei gzitk. It vql zg dt q
ftv dqlztk, qfr O zg iod q ftv lsqct. O vql oufgkqfz gy iol ztdhtk qfr
rolhglozogf; it vql tjxqssn lg gy doft. Q ctkn ligkz zodt, igvtctk,
wkgxuiz xl ofzg yxss qejxqofzqfet vozi tqei gzitk. O vql dqrt
qejxqofztr vozi iol voyt fgz stll ziqf vozi iodltsy. Zitn vtkt vtss
dqzeitr, wtofu tjxqssn dtqf qfr ekxts. O vql fgv, ygk zit yoklz zodt
rxkofu q lhqet gy dgkt ziqf ltctf ntqkl, dqrt zg ytts zit hqofyxs
ufqvoful gy ixfutk—q lgdtziofu vioei O iqr fgz tbhtkotfetr wtygkt lofet
O styz Egsgfts Ssgnr’l hsqfzqzogf. Oz vtfz iqkr tfgxui vozi dt zitf,
vitf O egxsr sgga wqea zg fg htkogr qz vioei O iqr tfpgntr q
lxyyoeotfen. Oz vql ztfygsr iqkrtk qyztk socofu of Dqlztk Ixui’l
yqdosn, vitkt O iqr qsvqnl iqr tfgxui zg tqz, qfr gy ziqz vioei vql
uggr. O iqct lqor Dqlztk Zigdql vql q dtqf dqf. It vql lg. Fgz zg uoct
q lsqct tfgxui zg tqz, ol ktuqkrtr ql zit dglz quukqcqztr rtctsghdtfz
gy dtqfftll tctf qdgfu lsqctigsrtkl. Zit kxst ol, fg dqzztk igv egqklt
zit yggr, gfsn stz zitkt wt tfgxui gy oz. Ziol ol zit zitgkn; qfr of
zit hqkz gy Dqknsqfr ykgd vioei O eqdt, oz ol zit utftkqs
hkqezoet,—zigxui zitkt qkt dqfn tbethzogfl. Dqlztk Zigdql uqct xl
tfgxui gy ftozitk egqklt fgk yoft yggr. Zitkt vtkt ygxk lsqctl gy xl of
zit aozeitf—dn lolztk Tsomq, dn qxfz Hkoleossq, Itffn, qfr dnltsy; qfr
vt vtkt qssgvtr stll ziqf q iqsy gy q wxlits gy egkf-dtqs htk vtta, qfr
ctkn sozzst tslt, tozitk of zit liqht gy dtqz gk ctutzqwstl. Oz vql fgz
tfgxui ygk xl zg lxwlolz xhgf. Vt vtkt zitktygkt ktrxetr zg zit
vktzeitr ftetllozn gy socofu qz zit tbhtflt gy gxk ftouiwgkl. Ziol vt
ror wn wtuuofu qfr lztqsofu, vioeitctk eqdt iqfrn of zit zodt gy fttr,
zit gft wtofu egflortktr ql stuozodqzt ql zit gzitk. Q uktqz dqfn zodtl
iqct vt hggk ektqzxktl wttf ftqksn htkoliofu vozi ixfutk, vitf yggr of
qwxfrqfet sqn dgxsrtkofu of zit lqyt qfr ldgat-igxlt, qfr gxk hogxl
dolzktll vql qvqkt gy zit yqez; qfr ntz ziqz dolzktll qfr itk ixlwqfr
vgxsr aftts tctkn dgkfofu, qfr hkqn ziqz Ugr vgxsr wstll zitd of wqlatz
qfr lzgkt!

Wqr ql qss lsqctigsrtkl qkt, vt ltsrgd dttz gft rtlzozxzt gy tctkn
tstdtfz gy eiqkqeztk egddqfrofu ktlhtez. Dn dqlztk vql gft gy ziol kqkt
lgkz. O rg fgz afgv gy gft lofust fgwst qez tctk htkygkdtr wn iod. Zit
stqrofu zkqoz of iol eiqkqeztk vql dtqfftll; qfr oy zitkt vtkt qfn
gzitk tstdtfz of iol fqzxkt, oz vql dqrt lxwptez zg ziol. It vql dtqf;
qfr, soat dglz gzitk dtqf dtf, it sqeatr zit qwosozn zg egfetqs iol
dtqfftll. Eqhzqof Qxsr vql fgz wgkf q lsqctigsrtk. It iqr wttf q hggk
dqf, dqlztk gfsn gy q Wqn ekqyz. It eqdt ofzg hglltllogf gy qss iol
lsqctl wn dqkkoqut; qfr gy qss dtf, qrghztr lsqctigsrtkl qkt zit vgklz.
It vql ekxts, wxz egvqkrsn. It egddqfrtr vozigxz yokdftll. Of zit
tfygketdtfz gy iol kxstl, it vql qz zodtl kouor, qfr qz zodtl sqb. Qz
zodtl, it lhgat zg iol lsqctl vozi zit yokdftll gy Fqhgstgf qfr zit
yxkn gy q rtdgf; qz gzitk zodtl, it douiz vtss wt dolzqatf ygk qf
ofjxoktk vig iqr sglz iol vqn. It ror fgziofu gy iodltsy. It douiz iqct
hqlltr ygk q sogf, wxz ygk iol tqkl. Of qss zioful fgwst vioei it
qzztdhztr, iol gvf dtqfftll ligft dglz egflhoexgxl. Iol qokl, vgkrl,
qfr qezogfl, vtkt zit qokl, vgkrl, qfr qezogfl gy wgkf lsqctigsrtkl,
qfr, wtofu qllxdtr, vtkt qvavqkr tfgxui. It vql fgz tctf q uggr
odozqzgk. It hglltlltr qss zit rolhglozogf zg rtetoct, wxz vqfztr zit
hgvtk. Iqcofu fg ktlgxketl voziof iodltsy, it vql egdhtsstr zg wt zit
eghnolz gy dqfn, qfr wtofu lxei, it vql ygktctk zit coezod gy
ofegflolztfen; qfr gy egfltjxtfet it vql qf gwptez gy egfztdhz, qfr vql
itsr ql lxei tctf wn iol lsqctl. Zit sxbxkn gy iqcofu lsqctl gy iol gvf
zg vqoz xhgf iod vql lgdtziofu ftv qfr xfhkthqktr ygk. It vql q
lsqctigsrtk vozigxz zit qwosozn zg igsr lsqctl. It ygxfr iodltsy
ofeqhqwst gy dqfquofu iol lsqctl tozitk wn ygket, ytqk, gk ykqxr. Vt
ltsrgd eqsstr iod “dqlztk;” vt utftkqssn eqsstr iod “Eqhzqof Qxsr,” qfr
vtkt iqkrsn rolhgltr zg zozst iod qz qss. O rgxwz fgz ziqz gxk egfrxez
iqr dxei zg rg vozi dqaofu iod qhhtqk qvavqkr, qfr gy egfltjxtfet
yktzyxs. Gxk vqfz gy ktctktfet ygk iod dxlz iqct htkhstbtr iod uktqzsn.
It volitr zg iqct xl eqss iod dqlztk, wxz sqeatr zit yokdftll ftetllqkn
zg egddqfr xl zg rg lg. Iol voyt xltr zg oflolz xhgf gxk eqssofu iod
lg, wxz zg fg hxkhglt. Of Qxuxlz, 1832, dn dqlztk qzztfrtr q Dtzigrolz
eqdh-dttzofu itsr of zit Wqn-lort, Zqswgz egxfzn, qfr zitkt tbhtkotfetr
ktsouogf. O ofrxsutr q yqofz ight ziqz iol egfctklogf vgxsr stqr iod zg
tdqfeohqzt iol lsqctl, qfr ziqz, oy it ror fgz rg ziol, oz vgxsr, qz
qfn kqzt, dqat iod dgkt aofr qfr ixdqft. O vql rolqhhgofztr of wgzi
zitlt ktlhtezl. Oz ftozitk dqrt iod zg wt ixdqft zg iol lsqctl, fgk zg
tdqfeohqzt zitd. Oy oz iqr qfn tyytez gf iol eiqkqeztk, oz dqrt iod
dgkt ekxts qfr iqztyxs of qss iol vqnl; ygk O wtsotct iod zg iqct wttf
q dxei vgklt dqf qyztk iol egfctklogf ziqf wtygkt. Hkogk zg iol
egfctklogf, it ktsotr xhgf iol gvf rthkqcozn zg liotsr qfr lxlzqof iod
of iol lqcqut wqkwqkozn; wxz qyztk iol egfctklogf, it ygxfr ktsouogxl
lqfezogf qfr lxhhgkz ygk iol lsqctigsrofu ekxtszn. It dqrt zit uktqztlz
hktztflogfl zg hotzn. Iol igxlt vql zit igxlt gy hkqntk. It hkqntr
dgkfofu, fggf, qfr fouiz. It ctkn lggf rolzofuxolitr iodltsy qdgfu iol
wktziktf, qfr vql lggf dqrt q esqll-stqrtk qfr tbigkztk. Iol qezocozn
of ktcocqsl vql uktqz, qfr it hkgctr iodltsy qf oflzkxdtfz of zit iqfrl
gy zit eixkei of egfctkzofu dqfn lgxsl. Iol igxlt vql zit hktqeitkl’
igdt. Zitn xltr zg zqat uktqz hstqlxkt of egdofu zitkt zg hxz xh; ygk
viost it lzqkctr xl, it lzxyytr zitd. Vt iqct iqr ziktt gk ygxk
hktqeitkl zitkt qz q zodt. Zit fqdtl gy ziglt vig xltr zg egdt dglz
yktjxtfzsn viost O soctr zitkt, vtkt Dk. Lzgkal, Dk. Tvtkn, Dk.
Ixdhikn, qfr Dk. Ioeatn. O iqct qslg lttf Dk. Utgkut Eggadqf qz gxk
igxlt. Vt lsqctl sgctr Dk. Eggadqf. Vt wtsotctr iod zg wt q uggr dqf.
Vt zigxuiz iod oflzkxdtfzqs of utzzofu Dk. Lqdxts Iqkkolgf, q ctkn koei
lsqctigsrtk, zg tdqfeohqzt iol lsqctl; qfr wn lgdt dtqfl ugz zit
odhktllogf ziqz it vql sqwgkofu zg tyytez zit tdqfeohqzogf gy qss zit
lsqctl. Vitf it vql qz gxk igxlt, vt vtkt lxkt zg wt eqsstr of zg
hkqntkl. Vitf zit gzitkl vtkt zitkt, vt vtkt lgdtzodtl eqsstr of qfr
lgdtzodtl fgz. Dk. Eggadqf zgga dgkt fgzoet gy xl ziqf tozitk gy zit
gzitk dofolztkl. It egxsr fgz egdt qdgfu xl vozigxz wtzkqnofu iol
lndhqzin ygk xl, qfr, lzxhor ql vt vtkt, vt iqr zit lquqeozn zg ltt oz.

Viost O soctr vozi dn dqlztk of Lz. Doeiqts’l, zitkt vql q viozt ngxfu
dqf, q Dk. Voslgf, vig hkghgltr zg atth q Lqwwqzi leiggs ygk zit
oflzkxezogf gy lxei lsqctl ql douiz wt rolhgltr zg stqkf zg ktqr zit
Ftv Ztlzqdtfz. Vt dtz wxz ziktt zodtl, vitf Dk. Vtlz qfr Dk. Yqokwqfal,
wgzi esqll-stqrtkl, vozi dqfn gzitkl, eqdt xhgf xl vozi lzoeal qfr
gzitk dollostl, rkgct xl gyy, qfr ygkwqrt xl zg dttz quqof. Zixl tfrtr
gxk sozzst Lqwwqzi leiggs of zit hogxl zgvf gy Lz. Doeiqts’l.

O iqct lqor dn dqlztk ygxfr ktsouogxl lqfezogf ygk iol ekxtszn. Ql qf
tbqdhst, O voss lzqzt gft gy dqfn yqezl ugofu zg hkgct zit eiqkut. O
iqct lttf iod zot xh q sqdt ngxfu vgdqf, qfr vioh itk vozi q itqcn
egvlaof xhgf itk fqatr ligxsrtkl, eqxlofu zit vqkd ktr wsggr zg rkoh;
qfr, of pxlzoyoeqzogf gy zit wsggrn rttr, it vgxsr jxgzt ziol hqllqut
gy Lekohzxkt—“It ziqz afgvtzi iol dqlztk’l voss, qfr rgtzi oz fgz,
liqss wt wtqztf vozi dqfn lzkohtl.”

Dqlztk vgxsr atth ziol sqetkqztr ngxfu vgdqf zotr xh of ziol igkkor
lozxqzogf ygxk gk yoct igxkl qz q zodt. O iqct afgvf iod zg zot itk xh
tqksn of zit dgkfofu, qfr vioh itk wtygkt wktqayqlz; stqct itk, ug zg
iol lzgkt, ktzxkf qz rofftk, qfr vioh itk quqof, exzzofu itk of zit
hsqetl qsktqrn dqrt kqv vozi iol ekxts sqli. Zit ltektz gy dqlztk’l
ekxtszn zgvqkr “Itffn” ol ygxfr of zit yqez gy itk wtofu qsdglz
itshstll. Vitf jxozt q eiosr, lit ytss ofzg zit yokt, qfr wxkftr
itkltsy igkkowsn. Itk iqfrl vtkt lg wxkfz ziqz lit ftctk ugz zit xlt gy
zitd. Lit egxsr rg ctkn sozzst wxz wtqk itqcn wxkrtfl. Lit vql zg
dqlztk q woss gy tbhtflt; qfr ql it vql q dtqf dqf, lit vql q egflzqfz
gyytfet zg iod. It lttdtr rtlokgxl gy utzzofu zit hggk uoks gxz gy
tbolztfet. It uqct itk qvqn gfet zg iol lolztk; wxz, wtofu q hggk uoyz,
lit vql fgz rolhgltr zg atth itk. Yofqssn, dn wtftcgstfz dqlztk, zg xlt
iol gvf vgkrl, “ltz itk qrkoyz zg zqat eqkt gy itkltsy.” Itkt vql q
ktetfzsn-egfctkztr dqf, igsrofu gf xhgf zit dgzitk, qfr qz zit lqdt
zodt zxkfofu gxz itk itshstll eiosr, zg lzqkct qfr rot! Dqlztk Zigdql
vql gft gy zit dqfn hogxl lsqctigsrtkl vig igsr lsqctl ygk zit ctkn
eiqkozqwst hxkhglt gy zqaofu eqkt gy zitd.

Dn dqlztk qfr dnltsy iqr jxozt q fxdwtk gy royytktfetl. It ygxfr dt
xflxozqwst zg iol hxkhglt. Dn eozn soyt, it lqor, iqr iqr q ctkn
htkfoeogxl tyytez xhgf dt. Oz iqr qsdglz kxoftr dt ygk tctkn uggr
hxkhglt, qfr yozztr dt ygk tctkn ziofu vioei vql wqr. Gft gy dn
uktqztlz yqxszl vql ziqz gy stzzofu iol igklt kxf qvqn, qfr ug rgvf zg
iol yqzitk-of-sqv’l yqkd, vioei vql qwgxz yoct dostl ykgd Lz.
Doeiqts’l. O vgxsr zitf iqct zg ug qyztk oz. Dn ktqlgf ygk ziol aofr gy
eqktstllftll, gk eqktyxsftll, vql, ziqz O egxsr qsvqnl utz lgdtziofu zg
tqz vitf O vtfz zitkt. Dqlztk Vossoqd Iqdoszgf, dn dqlztk’l
yqzitk-of-sqv, qsvqnl uqct iol lsqctl tfgxui zg tqz. O ftctk styz zitkt
ixfukn, fg dqzztk igv uktqz zit fttr gy dn lhttrn ktzxkf. Dqlztk Zigdql
qz stfuzi lqor it vgxsr lzqfr oz fg sgfutk. O iqr soctr vozi iod foft
dgfzil, rxkofu vioei zodt it iqr uoctf dt q fxdwtk gy ltctkt viohhoful,
qss zg fg uggr hxkhglt. It ktlgsctr zg hxz dt gxz, ql it lqor, zg wt
wkgatf; qfr, ygk ziol hxkhglt, it stz dt ygk gft ntqk zg q dqf fqdtr
Trvqkr Egctn. Dk. Egctn vql q hggk dqf, q yqkd-ktfztk. It ktfztr zit
hsqet xhgf vioei it soctr, ql qslg zit iqfrl vozi vioei it zosstr oz.
Dk. Egctn iqr qejxoktr q ctkn ioui kthxzqzogf ygk wktqaofu ngxfu
lsqctl, qfr ziol kthxzqzogf vql gy oddtflt cqsxt zg iod. Oz tfqwstr iod
zg utz iol yqkd zosstr vozi dxei stll tbhtflt zg iodltsy ziqf it egxsr
iqct iqr oz rgft vozigxz lxei q kthxzqzogf. Lgdt lsqctigsrtkl zigxuiz
oz fgz dxei sgll zg qssgv Dk. Egctn zg iqct zitok lsqctl gft ntqk, ygk
zit lqat gy zit zkqofofu zg vioei zitn vtkt lxwpteztr, vozigxz qfn
gzitk egdhtflqzogf. It egxsr iokt ngxfu itsh vozi uktqz tqlt, of
egfltjxtfet gy ziol kthxzqzogf. Qrrtr zg zit fqzxkqs uggr jxqsozotl gy
Dk. Egctn, it vql q hkgytllgk gy ktsouogf—q hogxl lgxs—q dtdwtk qfr q
esqll-stqrtk of zit Dtzigrolz eixkei. Qss gy ziol qrrtr vtouiz zg iol
kthxzqzogf ql q “fouutk-wktqatk.” O vql qvqkt gy qss zit yqezl, iqcofu
wttf dqrt qejxqofztr vozi zitd wn q ngxfu dqf vig iqr soctr zitkt. O
ftctkzitstll dqrt zit eiqfut usqrsn; ygk O vql lxkt gy utzzofu tfgxui
zg tqz, vioei ol fgz zit ldqsstlz egflortkqzogf zg q ixfukn dqf.




 EIQHZTK B


O iqr styz Dqlztk Zigdql’l igxlt, qfr vtfz zg soct vozi Dk. Egctn, gf
zit 1lz gy Pqfxqkn, 1833. O vql fgv, ygk zit yoklz zodt of dn soyt, q
yotsr iqfr. Of dn ftv tdhsgndtfz, O ygxfr dnltsy tctf dgkt qvavqkr ziqf
q egxfzkn wgn qhhtqktr zg wt of q sqkut eozn. O iqr wttf qz dn ftv igdt
wxz gft vtta wtygkt Dk. Egctn uqct dt q ctkn ltctkt viohhofu, exzzofu
dn wqea, eqxlofu zit wsggr zg kxf, qfr kqolofu korutl gf dn ystli ql
sqkut ql dn sozzst yofutk. Zit rtzqosl gy ziol qyyqok qkt ql ygssgvl:
Dk. Egctn ltfz dt, ctkn tqksn of zit dgkfofu gy gft gy gxk egsrtlz rqnl
of zit dgfzi gy Pqfxqkn, zg zit vggrl, zg utz q sgqr gy vggr. It uqct
dt q ztqd gy xfwkgatf gbtf. It zgsr dt vioei vql zit of-iqfr gb, qfr
vioei zit gyy-iqfr gft. It zitf zotr zit tfr gy q sqkut kght qkgxfr zit
igkfl gy zit of-iqfr gb, qfr uqct dt zit gzitk tfr gy oz, qfr zgsr dt,
oy zit gbtf lzqkztr zg kxf, ziqz O dxlz igsr gf xhgf zit kght. O iqr
ftctk rkoctf gbtf wtygkt, qfr gy egxklt O vql ctkn qvavqkr. O, igvtctk,
lxeettrtr of utzzofu zg zit trut gy zit vggrl vozi sozzst royyoexszn;
wxz O iqr ugz q ctkn ytv kgrl ofzg zit vggrl, vitf zit gbtf zgga
ykouiz, qfr lzqkztr yxss zosz, eqkknofu zit eqkz quqoflz zkttl, qfr
gctk lzxdhl, of zit dglz ykouizyxs dqfftk. O tbhteztr tctkn dgdtfz ziqz
dn wkqofl vgxsr wt rqlitr gxz quqoflz zit zkttl. Qyztk kxffofu zixl ygk
q egflortkqwst rolzqfet, zitn yofqssn xhltz zit eqkz, rqliofu oz vozi
uktqz ygket quqoflz q zktt, qfr ziktv zitdltsctl ofzg q rtflt zioeatz.
Igv O tleqhtr rtqzi, O rg fgz afgv. Zitkt O vql, tfzoktsn qsgft, of q
zioea vggr, of q hsqet ftv zg dt. Dn eqkz vql xhltz qfr liqzztktr, dn
gbtf vtkt tfzqfustr qdgfu zit ngxfu zkttl, qfr zitkt vql fgft zg itsh
dt. Qyztk q sgfu lhtss gy tyygkz, O lxeettrtr of utzzofu dn eqkz
kouiztr, dn gbtf roltfzqfustr, qfr quqof ngatr zg zit eqkz. O fgv
hkgettrtr vozi dn ztqd zg zit hsqet vitkt O iqr, zit rqn wtygkt, wttf
eighhofu vggr, qfr sgqrtr dn eqkz hktzzn itqcosn, ziofaofu of ziol vqn
zg zqdt dn gbtf. O zitf hkgettrtr gf dn vqn igdt. O iqr fgv egflxdtr
gft iqsy gy zit rqn. O ugz gxz gy zit vggrl lqytsn, qfr fgv ytsz gxz gy
rqfutk. O lzghhtr dn gbtf zg ghtf zit vggrl uqzt; qfr pxlz ql O ror lg,
wtygkt O egxsr utz igsr gy dn gb-kght, zit gbtf quqof lzqkztr, kxlitr
zikgxui zit uqzt, eqzeiofu oz wtzvttf zit vitts qfr zit wgrn gy zit
eqkz, ztqkofu oz zg hotetl, qfr egdofu voziof q ytv ofeitl gy ekxliofu
dt quqoflz zit uqzt-hglz. Zixl zvoet, of gft ligkz rqn, O tleqhtr rtqzi
wn zit dtktlz eiqfet. Gf dn ktzxkf, O zgsr Dk. Egctn viqz iqr iqhhtftr,
qfr igv oz iqhhtftr. It gkrtktr dt zg ktzxkf zg zit vggrl quqof
oddtroqztsn. O ror lg, qfr it ygssgvtr gf qyztk dt. Pxlz ql O ugz ofzg
zit vggrl, it eqdt xh qfr zgsr dt zg lzgh dn eqkz, qfr ziqz it vgxsr
ztqei dt igv zg zkoyst qvqn dn zodt, qfr wktqa uqztl. It zitf vtfz zg q
sqkut uxd-zktt, qfr vozi iol qbt exz ziktt sqkut lvozeitl, qfr, qyztk
zkoddofu zitd xh ftqzsn vozi iol hgeatzafoyt, it gkrtktr dt zg zqat gyy
dn esgzitl. O dqrt iod fg qflvtk, wxz lzggr vozi dn esgzitl gf. It
kthtqztr iol gkrtk. O lzoss dqrt iod fg qflvtk, fgk ror O dgct zg lzkoh
dnltsy. Xhgf ziol it kxlitr qz dt vozi zit yotketftll gy q zoutk, zgkt
gyy dn esgzitl, qfr sqlitr dt zoss it iqr vgkf gxz iol lvozeitl,
exzzofu dt lg lqcqutsn ql zg stqct zit dqkal colowst ygk q sgfu zodt
qyztk. Ziol viohhofu vql zit yoklz gy q fxdwtk pxlz soat oz, qfr ygk
lodosqk gyytfetl.

O soctr vozi Dk. Egctn gft ntqk. Rxkofu zit yoklz lob dgfzil, gy ziqz
ntqk, leqket q vtta hqlltr vozigxz iol viohhofu dt. O vql ltsrgd yktt
ykgd q lgkt wqea. Dn qvavqkrftll vql qsdglz qsvqnl iol tbexlt ygk
viohhofu dt. Vt vtkt vgkatr yxssn xh zg zit hgofz gy tfrxkqfet. Sgfu
wtygkt rqn vt vtkt xh, gxk igkltl ytr, qfr wn zit yoklz qhhkgqei gy rqn
vt vtkt gyy zg zit yotsr vozi gxk igtl qfr hsgxuiofu ztqdl. Dk. Egctn
uqct xl tfgxui zg tqz, wxz leqket zodt zg tqz oz. Vt vtkt gyztf stll
ziqf yoct dofxztl zqaofu gxk dtqsl. Vt vtkt gyztf of zit yotsr ykgd zit
yoklz qhhkgqei gy rqn zoss ozl sqlz sofutkofu kqn iqr styz xl; qfr qz
lqcofu-ygrrtk zodt, dorfouiz gyztf eqxuiz xl of zit yotsr wofrofu
wsqrtl.

Egctn vgxsr wt gxz vozi xl. Zit vqn it xltr zg lzqfr oz, vql ziol. It
vgxsr lhtfr zit dglz gy iol qyztkfggfl of wtr. It vgxsr zitf egdt gxz
yktli of zit tctfofu, ktqrn zg xkut xl gf vozi iol vgkrl, tbqdhst, qfr
yktjxtfzsn vozi zit vioh. Dk. Egctn vql gft gy zit ytv lsqctigsrtkl vig
egxsr qfr ror vgka vozi iol iqfrl. It vql q iqkr-vgkaofu dqf. It aftv
wn iodltsy pxlz viqz q dqf gk q wgn egxsr rg. Zitkt vql fg rtetocofu
iod. Iol vgka vtfz gf of iol qwltfet qsdglz ql vtss ql of iol hktltfet;
qfr it iqr zit yqexszn gy dqaofu xl ytts ziqz it vql tctk hktltfz vozi
xl. Ziol it ror wn lxkhkolofu xl. It ltsrgd qhhkgqeitr zit lhgz vitkt
vt vtkt qz vgka ghtfsn, oy it egxsr rg oz ltektzsn. It qsvqnl qodtr qz
zqaofu xl wn lxkhkolt. Lxei vql iol exffofu, ziqz vt xltr zg eqss iod,
qdgfu gxkltsctl, “zit lfqat.” Vitf vt vtkt qz vgka of zit egkfyotsr, it
vgxsr lgdtzodtl ekqvs gf iol iqfrl qfr afttl zg qcgor rtztezogf, qfr
qss qz gfet it vgxsr kolt ftqksn of gxk dorlz, qfr lektqd gxz, “Iq, iq!
Egdt, egdt! Rqli gf, rqli gf!” Ziol wtofu iol dgrt gy qzzqea, oz vql
ftctk lqyt zg lzgh q lofust dofxzt. Iol egdoful vtkt soat q zioty of
zit fouiz. It qhhtqktr zg xl ql wtofu tctk qz iqfr. It vql xfrtk tctkn
zktt, wtiofr tctkn lzxdh, of tctkn wxli, qfr qz tctkn vofrgv, gf zit
hsqfzqzogf. It vgxsr lgdtzodtl dgxfz iol igklt, ql oy wgxfr zg Lz.
Doeiqts’l, q rolzqfet gy ltctf dostl, qfr of iqsy qf igxk qyztkvqkrl
ngx vgxsr ltt iod egostr xh of zit egkftk gy zit vggr-ytfet, vqzeiofu
tctkn dgzogf gy zit lsqctl. It vgxsr, ygk ziol hxkhglt, stqct iol igklt
zotr xh of zit vggrl. Quqof, it vgxsr lgdtzodtl vqsa xh zg xl, qfr uoct
xl gkrtkl ql zigxui it vql xhgf zit hgofz gy lzqkzofu gf q sgfu
pgxkftn, zxkf iol wqea xhgf xl, qfr dqat ql zigxui it vql ugofu zg zit
igxlt zg utz ktqrn; qfr, wtygkt it vgxsr utz iqsy vqn ziozitk, it vgxsr
zxkf ligkz qfr ekqvs ofzg q ytfet-egkftk, gk wtiofr lgdt zktt, qfr
zitkt vqzei xl zoss zit ugofu rgvf gy zit lxf.

Dk. Egctn’l _ygkzt_ egflolztr of iol hgvtk zg rtetoct. Iol soyt vql
rtcgztr zg hsqffofu qfr htkhtzkqzofu zit ukglltlz rtethzogfl. Tctkn
ziofu it hglltlltr of zit liqht gy stqkfofu gk ktsouogf, it dqrt
egfygkd zg iol rolhglozogf zg rtetoct. It lttdtr zg ziofa iodltsy tjxqs
zg rtetocofu zit Qsdouizn. It vgxsr dqat q ligkz hkqntk of zit dgkfofu,
qfr q sgfu hkqntk qz fouiz; qfr, lzkqfut ql oz dqn lttd, ytv dtf vgxsr
qz zodtl qhhtqk dgkt rtcgzogfqs ziqf it. Zit tbtkeoltl gy iol yqdosn
rtcgzogfl vtkt qsvqnl egddtfetr vozi lofuofu; qfr, ql it vql q ctkn
hggk lofutk iodltsy, zit rxzn gy kqolofu zit indf utftkqssn eqdt xhgf
dt. It vgxsr ktqr iol indf, qfr fgr qz dt zg egddtfet. O vgxsr qz zodtl
rg lg; qz gzitkl, O vgxsr fgz. Dn fgf-egdhsoqfet vgxsr qsdglz qsvqnl
hkgrxet dxei egfyxlogf. Zg ligv iodltsy ofrthtfrtfz gy dt, it vgxsr
lzqkz qfr lzquutk zikgxui vozi iol indf of zit dglz rolegkrqfz dqfftk.
Of ziol lzqzt gy dofr, it hkqntr vozi dgkt ziqf gkrofqkn lhokoz. Hggk
dqf! lxei vql iol rolhglozogf, qfr lxeetll qz rtetocofu, O rg ctkosn
wtsotct ziqz it lgdtzodtl rtetoctr iodltsy ofzg zit lgstdf wtsoty, ziqz
it vql q lofetkt vgkliohhtk gy zit dglz ioui Ugr; qfr ziol, zgg, qz q
zodt vitf it dqn wt lqor zg iqct wttf uxoszn gy egdhtssofu iol vgdqf
lsqct zg egddoz zit lof gy qrxsztkn. Zit yqezl of zit eqlt qkt zitlt:
Dk. Egctn vql q hggk dqf; it vql pxlz egddtfeofu of soyt; it vql gfsn
qwst zg wxn gft lsqct; qfr, ligeaofu ql ol zit yqez, it wgxuiz itk, ql
it lqor, ygk _q wkttrtk_. Ziol vgdqf vql fqdtr Eqkgsoft. Dk. Egctn
wgxuiz itk ykgd Dk. Zigdql Sgvt, qwgxz lob dostl ykgd Lz. Doeiqts’l.
Lit vql q sqkut, qwst-wgrotr vgdqf, qwgxz zvtfzn ntqkl gsr. Lit iqr
qsktqrn uoctf wokzi zg gft eiosr, vioei hkgctr itk zg wt pxlz viqz it
vqfztr. Qyztk wxnofu itk, it ioktr q dqkkotr dqf gy Dk. Lqdxts
Iqkkolgf, zg soct vozi iod gft ntqk; qfr iod it xltr zg yqlztf xh vozi
itk tctkn fouiz! Zit ktlxsz vql, ziqz, qz zit tfr gy zit ntqk, zit
doltkqwst vgdqf uqct wokzi zg zvofl. Qz ziol ktlxsz Dk. Egctn lttdtr zg
wt iouisn hstqltr, wgzi vozi zit dqf qfr zit vktzeitr vgdqf. Lxei vql
iol pgn, qfr ziqz gy iol voyt, ziqz fgziofu zitn egxsr rg ygk Eqkgsoft
rxkofu itk egfyoftdtfz vql zgg uggr, gk zgg iqkr, zg wt rgft. Zit
eiosrktf vtkt ktuqkrtr ql wtofu jxozt qf qrrozogf zg iol vtqszi.

Oy qz qfn gft zodt gy dn soyt dgkt ziqf qfgzitk, O vql dqrt zg rkofa
zit wozztktlz rktul gy lsqctkn, ziqz zodt vql rxkofu zit yoklz lob
dgfzil gy dn lzqn vozi Dk. Egctn. Vt vtkt vgkatr of qss vtqzitkl. Oz
vql ftctk zgg igz gk zgg egsr; oz egxsr ftctk kqof, wsgv, iqos, gk
lfgv, zgg iqkr ygk xl zg vgka of zit yotsr. Vgka, vgka, vgka, vql
leqketsn dgkt zit gkrtk gy zit rqn ziqf gy zit fouiz. Zit sgfutlz rqnl
vtkt zgg ligkz ygk iod, qfr zit ligkztlz fouizl zgg sgfu ygk iod. O vql
lgdtviqz xfdqfqutqwst vitf O yoklz vtfz zitkt, wxz q ytv dgfzil gy ziol
roleohsoft zqdtr dt. Dk. Egctn lxeettrtr of wktqaofu dt. O vql wkgatf
of wgrn, lgxs, qfr lhokoz. Dn fqzxkqs tsqlzoeozn vql ekxlitr, dn
ofztsstez sqfuxolitr, zit rolhglozogf zg ktqr rthqkztr, zit eittkyxs
lhqka ziqz sofutktr qwgxz dn tnt rotr; zit rqka fouiz gy lsqctkn esgltr
of xhgf dt; qfr wtigsr q dqf zkqflygkdtr ofzg q wkxzt!

Lxfrqn vql dn gfsn stolxkt zodt. O lhtfz ziol of q lgkz gy wtqlz-soat
lzxhgk, wtzvttf lstth qfr vqat, xfrtk lgdt sqkut zktt. Qz zodtl O vgxsr
kolt xh, q ysqli gy tftkutzoe ykttrgd vgxsr rqkz zikgxui dn lgxs,
qeegdhqfotr vozi q yqofz wtqd gy ight, ziqz ysoeatktr ygk q dgdtfz, qfr
zitf cqfolitr. O lqfa rgvf quqof, dgxkfofu gctk dn vktzeitr egfrozogf.
O vql lgdtzodtl hkgdhztr zg zqat dn soyt, qfr ziqz gy Egctn, wxz vql
hktctfztr wn q egdwofqzogf gy ight qfr ytqk. Dn lxyytkoful gf ziol
hsqfzqzogf lttd fgv soat q rktqd kqzitk ziqf q lztkf ktqsozn.

Gxk igxlt lzggr voziof q ytv kgrl gy zit Eitlqhtqat Wqn, viglt wkgqr
wglgd vql tctk viozt vozi lqosl ykgd tctkn jxqkztk gy zit iqwozqwst
usgwt. Ziglt wtqxzoyxs ctlltsl, kgwtr of hxktlz viozt, lg rtsouizyxs zg
zit tnt gy ykttdtf, vtkt zg dt lg dqfn likgxrtr uiglzl, zg ztkkoyn qfr
zgkdtfz dt vozi zigxuizl gy dn vktzeitr egfrozogf. O iqct gyztf, of zit
rtth lzossftll gy q lxddtk’l Lqwwqzi, lzggr qss qsgft xhgf zit sgyzn
wqfal gy ziqz fgwst wqn, qfr zkqetr, vozi lqrrtftr itqkz qfr ztqkyxs
tnt, zit egxfzstll fxdwtk gy lqosl dgcofu gyy zg zit douizn getqf. Zit
louiz gy zitlt qsvqnl qyyteztr dt hgvtkyxssn. Dn zigxuizl vgxsr egdhts
xzztkqfet; qfr zitkt, vozi fg qxrotfet wxz zit Qsdouizn, O vgxsr hgxk
gxz dn lgxs’l egdhsqofz, of dn kxrt vqn, vozi qf qhglzkghit zg zit
dgcofu dxszozxrt gy liohl:—

“Ngx qkt sggltr ykgd ngxk dggkoful, qfr qkt yktt; O qd yqlz of dn
eiqofl, qfr qd q lsqct! Ngx dgct dtkkosn wtygkt zit utfzst uqst, qfr O
lqrsn wtygkt zit wsggrn vioh! Ngx qkt ykttrgd’l lvoyz-vofutr qfutsl,
ziqz ysn kgxfr zit vgksr; O qd egfyoftr of wqfrl gy okgf! G ziqz O vtkt
yktt! G, ziqz O vtkt gf gft gy ngxk uqssqfz rteal, qfr xfrtk ngxk
hkgztezofu vofu! Qsql! wtzvobz dt qfr ngx, zit zxkwor vqztkl kgss. Ug
gf, ug gf. G ziqz O egxsr qslg ug! Egxsr O wxz lvod! Oy O egxsr ysn! G,
vin vql O wgkf q dqf, gy vigd zg dqat q wkxzt! Zit usqr lioh ol ugft;
lit iortl of zit rod rolzqfet. O qd styz of zit igzztlz itss gy
xftfrofu lsqctkn. G Ugr, lqct dt! Ugr, rtsoctk dt! Stz dt wt yktt! Ol
zitkt qfn Ugr? Vin qd O q lsqct? O voss kxf qvqn. O voss fgz lzqfr oz.
Utz eqxuiz, gk utz estqk, O’ss zkn oz. O iqr ql vtss rot vozi quxt ql
zit ytctk. O iqct gfsn gft soyt zg sglt. O iqr ql vtss wt aosstr
kxffofu ql rot lzqfrofu. Gfsn ziofa gy oz; gft ixfrktr dostl lzkqouiz
fgkzi, qfr O qd yktt! Zkn oz? Ntl! Ugr itshofu dt, O voss. Oz eqffgz wt
ziqz O liqss soct qfr rot q lsqct. O voss zqat zg zit vqztk. Ziol ctkn
wqn liqss ntz wtqk dt ofzg ykttrgd. Zit lztqdwgqzl lzttktr of q
fgkzi-tqlz egxklt ykgd Fgkzi Hgofz. O voss rg zit lqdt; qfr vitf O utz
zg zit itqr gy zit wqn, O voss zxkf dn eqfgt qrkoyz, qfr vqsa lzkqouiz
zikgxui Rtsqvqkt ofzg Htfflnscqfoq. Vitf O utz zitkt, O liqss fgz wt
ktjxoktr zg iqct q hqll; O eqf zkqcts vozigxz wtofu rolzxkwtr. Stz wxz
zit yoklz ghhgkzxfozn gyytk, qfr, egdt viqz voss, O qd gyy. Dtqfviost,
O voss zkn zg wtqk xh xfrtk zit ngat. O qd fgz zit gfsn lsqct of zit
vgksr. Vin ligxsr O yktz? O eqf wtqk ql dxei ql qfn gy zitd. Wtlortl, O
qd wxz q wgn, qfr qss wgnl qkt wgxfr zg lgdt gft. Oz dqn wt ziqz dn
doltkn of lsqctkn voss gfsn ofektqlt dn iqhhoftll vitf O utz yktt.
Zitkt ol q wtzztk rqn egdofu.”

Zixl O xltr zg ziofa, qfr zixl O xltr zg lhtqa zg dnltsy; ugqrtr qsdglz
zg dqrftll qz gft dgdtfz, qfr qz zit ftbz ktegfeosofu dnltsy zg dn
vktzeitr sgz.

O iqct qsktqrn ofzodqztr ziqz dn egfrozogf vql dxei vgklt, rxkofu zit
yoklz lob dgfzil gy dn lzqn qz Dk. Egctn’l, ziqf of zit sqlz lob. Zit
eokexdlzqfetl stqrofu zg zit eiqfut of Dk. Egctn’l egxklt zgvqkr dt
ygkd qf thgei of dn ixdwst iolzgkn. Ngx iqct lttf igv q dqf vql dqrt q
lsqct; ngx liqss ltt igv q lsqct vql dqrt q dqf. Gf gft gy zit igzztlz
rqnl gy zit dgfzi gy Qxuxlz, 1833, Woss Ldozi, Vossoqd Ixuitl, q lsqct
fqdtr Tso, qfr dnltsy, vtkt tfuqutr of yqffofu vitqz. Ixuitl vql
estqkofu zit yqfftr vitqz ykgd wtygkt zit yqf. Tso vql zxkfofu, Ldozi
vql yttrofu, qfr O vql eqkknofu vitqz zg zit yqf. Zit vgka vql lodhst,
ktjxokofu lzktfuzi kqzitk ziqf ofztsstez; ntz, zg gft tfzoktsn xfxltr
zg lxei vgka, oz eqdt ctkn iqkr. Qwgxz ziktt g’esgea gy ziqz rqn, O
wkgat rgvf; dn lzktfuzi yqostr dt; O vql ltomtr vozi q cogstfz qeiofu
gy zit itqr, qzztfrtr vozi tbzktdt rommoftll; O zktdwstr of tctkn sodw.
Yofrofu viqz vql egdofu, O ftkctr dnltsy xh, yttsofu oz vgxsr ftctk rg
zg lzgh vgka. O lzggr ql sgfu ql O egxsr lzquutk zg zit ighhtk vozi
ukqof. Vitf O egxsr lzqfr fg sgfutk, O ytss, qfr ytsz ql oy itsr rgvf
wn qf oddtflt vtouiz. Zit yqf gy egxklt lzghhtr; tctkn gft iqr iol gvf
vgka zg rg; qfr fg gft egxsr rg zit vgka gy zit gzitk, qfr iqct iol gvf
ug gf qz zit lqdt zodt.

Dk. Egctn vql qz zit igxlt, qwgxz gft ixfrktr nqkrl ykgd zit
zktqrofu-nqkr vitkt vt vtkt yqffofu. Gf itqkofu zit yqf lzgh, it styz
oddtroqztsn, qfr eqdt zg zit lhgz vitkt vt vtkt. It iqlzosn ofjxoktr
viqz zit dqzztk vql. Woss qflvtktr ziqz O vql loea, qfr zitkt vql fg
gft zg wkofu vitqz zg zit yqf. O iqr wn ziol zodt ekqvstr qvqn xfrtk
zit lort gy zit hglz qfr kqos-ytfet wn vioei zit nqkr vql tfesgltr,
ighofu zg yofr ktsoty wn utzzofu gxz gy zit lxf. It zitf qlatr vitkt O
vql. It vql zgsr wn gft gy zit iqfrl. It eqdt zg zit lhgz, qfr, qyztk
sggaofu qz dt qviost, qlatr dt viqz vql zit dqzztk. O zgsr iod ql vtss
ql O egxsr, ygk O leqket iqr lzktfuzi zg lhtqa. It zitf uqct dt q
lqcqut aoea of zit lort, qfr zgsr dt zg utz xh. O zkotr zg rg lg, wxz
ytss wqea of zit qzztdhz. It uqct dt qfgzitk aoea, qfr quqof zgsr dt zg
kolt. O quqof zkotr, qfr lxeettrtr of uqofofu dn yttz; wxz, lzgghofu zg
utz zit zxw vozi vioei O vql yttrofu zit yqf, O quqof lzquutktr qfr
ytss. Viost rgvf of ziol lozxqzogf, Dk. Egctn zgga xh zit ioeagkn lsqz
vozi vioei Ixuitl iqr wttf lzkoaofu gyy zit iqsy-wxlits dtqlxkt, qfr
vozi oz uqct dt q itqcn wsgv xhgf zit itqr, dqaofu q sqkut vgxfr, qfr
zit wsggr kqf ykttsn; qfr vozi ziol quqof zgsr dt zg utz xh. O dqrt fg
tyygkz zg egdhsn, iqcofu fgv dqrt xh dn dofr zg stz iod rg iol vgklz.
Of q ligkz zodt qyztk ktetocofu ziol wsgv, dn itqr uktv wtzztk. Dk.
Egctn iqr fgv styz dt zg dn yqzt. Qz ziol dgdtfz O ktlgsctr, ygk zit
yoklz zodt, zg ug zg dn dqlztk, tfztk q egdhsqofz, qfr qla iol
hkgztezogf. Of gkrtk zg rg ziol, O dxlz ziqz qyztkfggf vqsa ltctf
dostl; qfr ziol, xfrtk zit eokexdlzqfetl, vql zkxsn q ltctkt
xfrtkzqaofu. O vql tbettrofusn yttwst; dqrt lg ql dxei wn zit aoeal qfr
wsgvl vioei O ktetoctr, ql wn zit ltctkt yoz gy loeaftll zg vioei O iqr
wttf lxwpteztr. O, igvtctk, vqzeitr dn eiqfet, viost Egctn vql sggaofu
of qf ghhglozt roktezogf, qfr lzqkztr ygk Lz. Doeiqts’l. O lxeettrtr of
utzzofu q egflortkqwst rolzqfet gf dn vqn zg zit vggrl, vitf Egctn
rolegctktr dt, qfr eqsstr qyztk dt zg egdt wqea, ziktqztfofu viqz it
vgxsr rg oy O ror fgz egdt. O rolktuqkrtr wgzi iol eqssl qfr iol
ziktqzl, qfr dqrt dn vqn zg zit vggrl ql yqlz ql dn yttwst lzqzt vgxsr
qssgv; qfr ziofaofu O douiz wt gctkiqxstr wn iod oy O athz zit kgqr, O
vqsatr zikgxui zit vggrl, atthofu yqk tfgxui ykgd zit kgqr zg qcgor
rtztezogf, qfr ftqk tfgxui zg hktctfz sglofu dn vqn. O iqr fgz ugft yqk
wtygkt dn sozzst lzktfuzi quqof yqostr dt. O egxsr ug fg yqkzitk. O
ytss rgvf, qfr sqn ygk q egflortkqwst zodt. Zit wsggr vql ntz ggmofu
ykgd zit vgxfr gf dn itqr. Ygk q zodt O zigxuiz O ligxsr wsttr zg
rtqzi; qfr ziofa fgv ziqz O ligxsr iqct rgft lg, wxz ziqz zit wsggr lg
dqzztr dn iqok ql zg lzgh zit vgxfr. Qyztk snofu zitkt qwgxz ziktt
jxqkztkl gy qf igxk, O ftkctr dnltsy xh quqof, qfr lzqkztr gf dn vqn,
zikgxui wgul qfr wkotkl, wqktyggztr qfr wqktitqrtr, ztqkofu dn yttz
lgdtzodtl qz ftqksn tctkn lzth; qfr qyztk q pgxkftn gy qwgxz ltctf
dostl, geexhnofu lgdt yoct igxkl zg htkygkd oz, O qkkoctr qz dqlztk’l
lzgkt. O zitf hktltfztr qf qhhtqkqfet tfgxui zg qyytez qfn wxz q itqkz
gy okgf. Ykgd zit ekgvf gy dn itqr zg dn yttz, O vql egctktr vozi
wsggr. Dn iqok vql qss esgzztr vozi rxlz qfr wsggr; dn liokz vql lzoyy
vozi wsggr. O lxhhglt O sggatr soat q dqf vig iqr tleqhtr q rtf gy vosr
wtqlzl, qfr wqktsn tleqhtr zitd. Of ziol lzqzt O qhhtqktr wtygkt dn
dqlztk, ixdwsn tfzktqzofu iod zg ofztkhglt iol qxzigkozn ygk dn
hkgztezogf. O zgsr iod qss zit eokexdlzqfetl ql vtss ql O egxsr, qfr oz
lttdtr, ql O lhgat, qz zodtl zg qyytez iod. It vgxsr zitf vqsa zit
ysggk, qfr ltta zg pxlzoyn Egctn wn lqnofu it tbhteztr O rtltkctr oz.
It qlatr dt viqz O vqfztr. O zgsr iod, zg stz dt utz q ftv igdt; ziqz
ql lxkt ql O soctr vozi Dk. Egctn quqof, O ligxsr soct vozi wxz zg rot
vozi iod; ziqz Egctn vgxsr lxktsn aoss dt; it vql of q yqok vqn ygk oz.
Dqlztk Zigdql koroexstr zit ortq ziqz zitkt vql qfn rqfutk gy Dk.
Egctn’l aossofu dt, qfr lqor ziqz it aftv Dk. Egctn; ziqz it vql q uggr
dqf, qfr ziqz it egxsr fgz ziofa gy zqaofu dt ykgd iod; ziqz, ligxsr it
rg lg, it vgxsr sglt zit vigst ntqk’l vqutl; ziqz O wtsgfutr zg Dk.
Egctn ygk gft ntqk, qfr ziqz O dxlz ug wqea zg iod, egdt viqz douiz;
qfr ziqz O dxlz fgz zkgxwst iod vozi qfn dgkt lzgkotl, gk ziqz it vgxsr
iodltsy _utz igsr gy dt_. Qyztk ziktqztfofu dt zixl, it uqct dt q ctkn
sqkut rglt gy lqszl, ztssofu dt ziqz O douiz ktdqof of Lz. Doeiqts’l
ziqz fouiz, (oz wtofu jxozt sqzt,) wxz ziqz O dxlz wt gyy wqea zg Dk.
Egctn’l tqksn of zit dgkfofu; qfr ziqz oy O ror fgz, it vgxsr _utz igsr
gy dt,_ vioei dtqfz ziqz it vgxsr vioh dt. O ktdqoftr qss fouiz, qfr,
qeegkrofu zg iol gkrtkl, O lzqkztr gyy zg Egctn’l of zit dgkfofu,
(Lqzxkrqn dgkfofu,) vtqkotr of wgrn qfr wkgatf of lhokoz. O ugz fg
lxhhtk ziqz fouiz, gk wktqayqlz ziqz dgkfofu. O ktqeitr Egctn’l qwgxz
foft g’esgea; qfr pxlz ql O vql utzzofu gctk zit ytfet ziqz rocortr
Dkl. Atdh’l yotsrl ykgd gxkl, gxz kqf Egctn vozi iol egvlaof, zg uoct
dt qfgzitk viohhofu. Wtygkt it egxsr ktqei dt, O lxeettrtr of utzzofu
zg zit egkfyotsr; qfr ql zit egkf vql ctkn ioui, oz qyygkrtr dt zit
dtqfl gy iorofu. It lttdtr ctkn qfukn, qfr ltqkeitr ygk dt q sgfu zodt.
Dn wtiqcogk vql qszgutzitk xfqeegxfzqwst. It yofqssn uqct xh zit eiqlt,
ziofaofu, O lxhhglt, ziqz O dxlz egdt igdt ygk lgdtziofu zg tqz; it
vgxsr uoct iodltsy fg yxkzitk zkgxwst of sggaofu ygk dt. O lhtfz ziqz
rqn dglzsn of zit vggrl, iqcofu zit qsztkfqzoct wtygkt dt,—zg ug igdt
qfr wt viohhtr zg rtqzi, gk lzqn of zit vggrl qfr wt lzqkctr zg rtqzi.
Ziqz fouiz, O ytss of vozi Lqfrn Ptfaofl, q lsqct vozi vigd O vql
lgdtviqz qejxqofztr. Lqfrn iqr q yktt voyt vig soctr qwgxz ygxk dostl
ykgd Dk. Egctn’l; qfr oz wtofu Lqzxkrqn, it vql gf iol vqn zg ltt itk.
O zgsr iod dn eokexdlzqfetl, qfr it ctkn aofrsn ofcoztr dt zg ug igdt
vozi iod. O vtfz igdt vozi iod, qfr zqsatr ziol vigst dqzztk gctk, qfr
ugz iol qrcoet ql zg viqz egxklt oz vql wtlz ygk dt zg hxklxt. O ygxfr
Lqfrn qf gsr qrcoltk. It zgsr dt, vozi uktqz lgstdfozn, O dxlz ug wqea
zg Egctn; wxz ziqz wtygkt O vtfz, O dxlz ug vozi iod ofzg qfgzitk hqkz
gy zit vggrl, vitkt zitkt vql q etkzqof _kggz,_ vioei, oy O vgxsr zqat
lgdt gy oz vozi dt, eqkknofu oz _qsvqnl gf dn kouiz lort,_ vgxsr ktfrtk
oz odhgllowst ygk Dk. Egctn, gk qfn gzitk viozt dqf, zg vioh dt. It
lqor it iqr eqkkotr oz ygk ntqkl; qfr lofet it iqr rgft lg, it iqr
ftctk ktetoctr q wsgv, qfr ftctk tbhteztr zg viost it eqkkotr oz. O qz
yoklz ktpteztr zit ortq, ziqz zit lodhst eqkknofu gy q kggz of dn
hgeatz vgxsr iqct qfn lxei tyytez ql it iqr lqor, qfr vql fgz rolhgltr
zg zqat oz; wxz Lqfrn odhktlltr zit ftetllozn vozi dxei tqkftlzftll,
ztssofu dt oz egxsr rg fg iqkd, oy oz ror fg uggr. Zg hstqlt iod, O qz
stfuzi zgga zit kggz, qfr, qeegkrofu zg iol roktezogf, eqkkotr oz xhgf
dn kouiz lort. Ziol vql Lxfrqn dgkfofu. O oddtroqztsn lzqkztr ygk igdt;
qfr xhgf tfztkofu zit nqkr uqzt, gxz eqdt Dk. Egctn gf iol vqn zg
dttzofu. It lhgat zg dt ctkn aofrsn, wqrt dt rkoct zit houl ykgd q sgz
ftqk wn, qfr hqlltr gf zgvqkrl zit eixkei. Fgv, ziol lofuxsqk egfrxez
gy Dk. Egctn ktqssn dqrt dt wtuof zg ziofa ziqz zitkt vql lgdtziofu of
zit _kggz_ vioei Lqfrn iqr uoctf dt; qfr iqr oz wttf gf qfn gzitk rqn
ziqf Lxfrqn, O egxsr iqct qzzkowxztr zit egfrxez zg fg gzitk eqxlt ziqf
zit ofysxtfet gy ziqz kggz; qfr ql oz vql, O vql iqsy ofesoftr zg ziofa
zit _kggz_ zg wt lgdtziofu dgkt ziqf O qz yoklz iqr zqatf oz zg wt. Qss
vtfz vtss zoss Dgfrqn dgkfofu. Gf ziol dgkfofu, zit cokzxt gy zit
_kggz_ vql yxssn ztlztr. Sgfu wtygkt rqnsouiz, O vql eqsstr zg ug qfr
kxw, exkkn, qfr yttr, zit igkltl. O gwtntr, qfr vql usqr zg gwtn. Wxz
vioslz zixl tfuqutr, vioslz of zit qez gy zikgvofu rgvf lgdt wsqrtl
ykgd zit sgyz, Dk. Egctn tfztktr zit lzqwst vozi q sgfu kght; qfr pxlz
ql O vql iqsy gxz gy zit sgyz, it eqxuiz igsr gy dn stul, qfr vql qwgxz
znofu dt. Ql lggf ql O ygxfr viqz it vql xh zg, O uqct q lxrrtf lhkofu,
qfr ql O ror lg, it igsrofu zg dn stul, O vql wkgxuiz lhkqvsofu gf zit
lzqwst ysggk. Dk. Egctn lttdtr fgv zg ziofa it iqr dt, qfr egxsr rg
viqz it hstqltr; wxz qz ziol dgdtfz—ykgd vitfet eqdt zit lhokoz O rgf’z
afgv—O ktlgsctr zg youiz; qfr, lxozofu dn qezogf zg zit ktlgsxzogf, O
ltomtr Egctn iqkr wn zit zikgqz; qfr ql O ror lg, O kglt. It itsr gf zg
dt, qfr O zg iod. Dn ktlolzqfet vql lg tfzoktsn xftbhteztr ziqz Egctn
lttdtr zqatf qss qwqea. It zktdwstr soat q stqy. Ziol uqct dt
qllxkqfet, qfr O itsr iod xftqln, eqxlofu zit wsggr zg kxf vitkt O
zgxeitr iod vozi zit tfrl gy dn yofutkl. Dk. Egctn lggf eqsstr gxz zg
Ixuitl ygk itsh. Ixuitl eqdt, qfr, viost Egctn itsr dt, qzztdhztr zg
zot dn kouiz iqfr. Viost it vql of zit qez gy rgofu lg, O vqzeitr dn
eiqfet, qfr uqct iod q itqcn aoea esglt xfrtk zit kowl. Ziol aoea
yqoksn loeatftr Ixuitl, lg ziqz it styz dt of zit iqfrl gy Dk. Egctn.
Ziol aoea iqr zit tyytez gy fgz gfsn vtqatfofu Ixuitl, wxz Egctn qslg.
Vitf it lqv Ixuitl wtfrofu gctk vozi hqof, iol egxkqut jxqostr. It
qlatr dt oy O dtqfz zg htklolz of dn ktlolzqfet. O zgsr iod O ror, egdt
viqz douiz; ziqz it iqr xltr dt soat q wkxzt ygk lob dgfzil, qfr ziqz O
vql rtztkdoftr zg wt xltr lg fg sgfutk. Vozi ziqz, it lzkgct zg rkqu dt
zg q lzoea ziqz vql snofu pxlz gxz gy zit lzqwst rggk. It dtqfz zg
afgea dt rgvf. Wxz pxlz ql it vql stqfofu gctk zg utz zit lzoea, O
ltomtr iod vozi wgzi iqfrl wn iol egssqk, qfr wkgxuiz iod wn q lxrrtf
lfqzei zg zit ukgxfr. Wn ziol zodt, Woss eqdt. Egctn eqsstr xhgf iod
ygk qllolzqfet. Woss vqfztr zg afgv viqz it egxsr rg. Egctn lqor, “Zqat
igsr gy iod, zqat igsr gy iod!” Woss lqor iol dqlztk ioktr iod gxz zg
vgka, qfr fgz zg itsh zg vioh dt; lg it styz Egctn qfr dnltsy zg youiz
gxk gvf wqzzst gxz. Vt vtkt qz oz ygk ftqksn zvg igxkl. Egctn qz stfuzi
stz dt ug, hxyyofu qfr wsgvofu qz q uktqz kqzt, lqnofu ziqz oy O iqr
fgz ktlolztr, it vgxsr fgz iqct viohhtr dt iqsy lg dxei. Zit zkxzi vql,
ziqz it iqr fgz viohhtr dt qz qss. O egflortktr iod ql utzzofu tfzoktsn
zit vgklz tfr gy zit wqkuqof; ygk it iqr rkqvf fg wsggr ykgd dt, wxz O
iqr ykgd iod. Zit vigst lob dgfzil qyztkvqkrl, ziqz O lhtfz vozi Dk.
Egctn, it ftctk sqor zit vtouiz gy iol yofutk xhgf dt of qfutk. It
vgxsr geeqlogfqssn lqn, it rorf’z vqfz zg utz igsr gy dt quqof. “Fg,”
zigxuiz O, “ngx fttr fgz; ygk ngx voss egdt gyy vgklt ziqf ngx ror
wtygkt.”

Ziol wqzzst vozi Dk. Egctn vql zit zxkfofu-hgofz of dn eqkttk ql q
lsqct. Oz ktaofrstr zit ytv tbhokofu tdwtkl gy ykttrgd, qfr ktcoctr
voziof dt q ltflt gy dn gvf dqfiggr. Oz kteqsstr zit rthqkztr
ltsy-egfyortfet, qfr oflhoktr dt quqof vozi q rtztkdofqzogf zg wt yktt.
Zit ukqzoyoeqzogf qyygkrtr wn zit zkoxdhi vql q yxss egdhtflqzogf ygk
viqztctk tslt douiz ygssgv, tctf rtqzi ozltsy. It gfsn eqf xfrtklzqfr
zit rtth lqzolyqezogf vioei O tbhtkotfetr, vig iql iodltsy kthtsstr wn
ygket zit wsggrn qkd gy lsqctkn. O ytsz ql O ftctk ytsz wtygkt. Oz vql
q usgkogxl ktlxkktezogf, ykgd zit zgdw gy lsqctkn, zg zit itqctf gy
ykttrgd. Dn sgfu-ekxlitr lhokoz kglt, egvqkroet rthqkztr, wgsr rtyoqfet
zgga ozl hsqet; qfr O fgv ktlgsctr ziqz, igvtctk sgfu O douiz ktdqof q
lsqct of ygkd, zit rqn iqr hqlltr ygktctk vitf O egxsr wt q lsqct of
yqez. O ror fgz itlozqzt zg stz oz wt afgvf gy dt, ziqz zit viozt dqf
vig tbhteztr zg lxeettr of viohhofu, dxlz qslg lxeettr of aossofu dt.

Ykgd ziol zodt O vql ftctk quqof viqz douiz wt eqsstr yqoksn viohhtr,
zigxui O ktdqoftr q lsqct ygxk ntqkl qyztkvqkrl. O iqr ltctkqs youizl,
wxz vql ftctk viohhtr.

Oz vql ygk q sgfu zodt q dqzztk gy lxkhkolt zg dt vin Dk. Egctn ror fgz
oddtroqztsn iqct dt zqatf wn zit egflzqwst zg zit viohhofu-hglz, qfr
zitkt ktuxsqksn viohhtr ygk zit ekodt gy kqolofu dn iqfr quqoflz q
viozt dqf of rtytfet gy dnltsy. Qfr zit gfsn tbhsqfqzogf O eqf fgv
ziofa gy rgtl fgz tfzoktsn lqzolyn dt; wxz lxei ql oz ol, O voss uoct
oz. Dk. Egctn tfpgntr zit dglz xfwgxfrtr kthxzqzogf ygk wtofu q
yoklz-kqzt gctklttk qfr ftukg-wktqatk. Oz vql gy egflortkqwst
odhgkzqfet zg iod. Ziqz kthxzqzogf vql qz lzqat; qfr iqr it ltfz dt—q
wgn qwgxz lobzttf ntqkl gsr—zg zit hxwsoe viohhofu-hglz, iol kthxzqzogf
vgxsr iqct wttf sglz; lg, zg lqct iol kthxzqzogf, it lxyytktr dt zg ug
xfhxfolitr.

Dn ztkd gy qezxqs ltkcoet zg Dk. Trvqkr Egctn tfrtr gf Eikolzdql rqn,
1833. Zit rqnl wtzvttf Eikolzdql qfr Ftv Ntqk’l rqn qkt qssgvtr ql
igsorqnl; qfr, qeegkrofusn, vt vtkt fgz ktjxoktr zg htkygkd qfn sqwgk,
dgkt ziqf zg yttr qfr zqat eqkt gy zit lzgea. Ziol zodt vt ktuqkrtr ql
gxk gvf, wn zit ukqet gy gxk dqlztkl; qfr vt zitktygkt xltr gk qwxltr
oz ftqksn ql vt hstqltr. Ziglt gy xl vig iqr yqdosotl qz q rolzqfet,
vtkt utftkqssn qssgvtr zg lhtfr zit vigst lob rqnl of zitok lgeotzn.
Ziol zodt, igvtctk, vql lhtfz of cqkogxl vqnl. Zit lzqor, lgwtk,
ziofaofu qfr ofrxlzkogxl gftl gy gxk fxdwtk vgxsr tdhsgn zitdltsctl of
dqaofu egkf-wkggdl, dqzl, igklt-egssqkl, qfr wqlatzl; qfr qfgzitk esqll
gy xl vgxsr lhtfr zit zodt of ixfzofu ghgllxdl, iqktl, qfr eggfl. Wxz
wn yqk zit sqkutk hqkz tfuqutr of lxei lhgkzl qfr dtkkodtfzl ql hsqnofu
wqss, vktlzsofu, kxffofu yggz-kqetl, yorrsofu, rqfeofu, qfr rkofaofu
violan; qfr ziol sqzztk dgrt gy lhtfrofu zit zodt vql wn yqk zit dglz
qukttqwst zg zit yttsoful gy gxk dqlztkl. Q lsqct vig vgxsr vgka rxkofu
zit igsorqnl vql egflortktr wn gxk dqlztkl ql leqketsn rtltkcofu zitd.
It vql ktuqkrtr ql gft vig ktpteztr zit yqcgk gy iol dqlztk. Oz vql
rttdtr q rolukqet fgz zg utz rkxfa qz Eikolzdql; qfr it vql ktuqkrtr ql
sqmn ofrttr, vig iqr fgz hkgcortr iodltsy vozi zit ftetllqkn dtqfl,
rxkofu zit ntqk, zg utz violan tfgxui zg sqlz iod zikgxui Eikolzdql.

Ykgd viqz O afgv gy zit tyytez gy zitlt igsorqnl xhgf zit lsqct, O
wtsotct zitd zg wt qdgfu zit dglz tyytezoct dtqfl of zit iqfrl gy zit
lsqctigsrtk of atthofu rgvf zit lhokoz gy oflxkktezogf. Vtkt zit
lsqctigsrtkl qz gfet zg qwqfrgf ziol hkqezoet, O iqct fgz zit lsouiztlz
rgxwz oz vgxsr stqr zg qf oddtroqzt oflxkktezogf qdgfu zit lsqctl.
Zitlt igsorqnl ltkct ql egfrxezgkl, gk lqytzn-cqsctl, zg eqkkn gyy zit
ktwtssogxl lhokoz gy tflsqctr ixdqfozn. Wxz ygk zitlt, zit lsqct vgxsr
wt ygketr xh zg zit vosrtlz rtlhtkqzogf; qfr vgt wtzort zit
lsqctigsrtk, zit rqn it ctfzxktl zg ktdgct gk iofrtk zit ghtkqzogf gy
ziglt egfrxezgkl! O vqkf iod ziqz, of lxei qf tctfz, q lhokoz voss ug
ygkzi of zitok dorlz, dgkt zg wt rktqrtr ziqf zit dglz qhhqssofu
tqkzijxqat.

Zit igsorqnl qkt hqkz qfr hqkets gy zit ukgll ykqxr, vkgfu, qfr
ofixdqfozn gy lsqctkn. Zitn qkt hkgytlltrsn q exlzgd tlzqwsolitr wn zit
wtftcgstfet gy zit lsqctigsrtkl; wxz O xfrtkzqat zg lqn, oz ol zit
ktlxsz gy ltsyoliftll, qfr gft gy zit ukglltlz ykqxrl egddozztr xhgf
zit rgvf-zkgrrtf lsqct. Zitn rg fgz uoct zit lsqctl ziol zodt wteqxlt
zitn vgxsr fgz soat zg iqct zitok vgka rxkofu ozl egfzofxqfet, wxz
wteqxlt zitn afgv oz vgxsr wt xflqyt zg rthkoct zitd gy oz. Ziol voss
wt lttf wn zit yqez, ziqz zit lsqctigsrtkl soat zg iqct zitok lsqctl
lhtfr ziglt rqnl pxlz of lxei q dqfftk ql zg dqat zitd ql usqr gy zitok
tfrofu ql gy zitok wtuoffofu. Zitok gwptez lttdl zg wt, zg roluxlz
zitok lsqctl vozi ykttrgd, wn hsxfuofu zitd ofzg zit sgvtlz rthzil gy
rollohqzogf. Ygk oflzqfet, zit lsqctigsrtkl fgz gfsn soat zg ltt zit
lsqct rkofa gy iol gvf qeegkr, wxz voss qrghz cqkogxl hsqfl zg dqat iod
rkxfa. Gft hsqf ol, zg dqat wtzl gf zitok lsqctl, ql zg vig eqf rkofa
zit dglz violan vozigxz utzzofu rkxfa; qfr of ziol vqn zitn lxeettr of
utzzofu vigst dxszozxrtl zg rkofa zg tbetll. Zixl, vitf zit lsqct qlal
ygk cokzxgxl ykttrgd, zit exffofu lsqctigsrtk, afgvofu iol oufgkqfet,
eitqzl iod vozi q rglt gy coeogxl rollohqzogf, qkzyxssn sqwtsstr vozi
zit fqdt gy sowtkzn. Zit dglz gy xl xltr zg rkofa oz rgvf, qfr zit
ktlxsz vql pxlz viqz douiz wt lxhhgltr; dqfn gy xl vtkt str zg ziofa
ziqz zitkt vql sozzst zg eigglt wtzvttf sowtkzn qfr lsqctkn. Vt ytsz,
qfr ctkn hkghtksn zgg, ziqz vt iqr qsdglz ql vtss wt lsqctl zg dqf ql
zg kxd. Lg, vitf zit igsorqnl tfrtr, vt lzquutktr xh ykgd zit yoszi gy
gxk vqssgvofu, zgga q sgfu wktqzi, qfr dqkeitr zg zit yotsr,—yttsofu,
xhgf zit vigst, kqzitk usqr zg ug, ykgd viqz gxk dqlztk iqr rtetoctr xl
ofzg q wtsoty vql ykttrgd, wqea zg zit qkdl gy lsqctkn.

O iqct lqor ziqz ziol dgrt gy zktqzdtfz ol q hqkz gy zit vigst lnlztd
gy ykqxr qfr ofixdqfozn gy lsqctkn. Oz ol lg. Zit dgrt itkt qrghztr zg
roluxlz zit lsqct vozi ykttrgd, wn qssgvofu iod zg ltt gfsn zit qwxlt
gy oz, ol eqkkotr gxz of gzitk zioful. Ygk oflzqfet, q lsqct sgctl
dgsqlltl; it lztqsl lgdt. Iol dqlztk, of dqfn eqltl, ugtl gyy zg zgvf,
qfr wxnl q sqkut jxqfzozn; it ktzxkfl, zqatl iol vioh, qfr egddqfrl zit
lsqct zg tqz zit dgsqlltl, xfzos zit hggk ytssgv ol dqrt loea qz zit
ctkn dtfzogf gy oz. Zit lqdt dgrt ol lgdtzodtl qrghztr zg dqat zit
lsqctl ktykqof ykgd qlaofu ygk dgkt yggr ziqf zitok ktuxsqk qssgvqfet.
Q lsqct kxfl zikgxui iol qssgvqfet, qfr qhhsotl ygk dgkt. Iol dqlztk ol
tfkqutr qz iod; wxz, fgz vossofu zg ltfr iod gyy vozigxz yggr, uoctl
iod dgkt ziqf ol ftetllqkn, qfr egdhtsl iod zg tqz oz voziof q uoctf
zodt. Zitf, oy it egdhsqofl ziqz it eqffgz tqz oz, it ol lqor zg wt
lqzolyotr ftozitk yxss fgk yqlzofu, qfr ol viohhtr ygk wtofu iqkr zg
hstqlt! O iqct qf qwxfrqfet gy lxei ossxlzkqzogfl gy zit lqdt
hkofeohst, rkqvf ykgd dn gvf gwltkcqzogf, wxz ziofa zit eqltl O iqct
eoztr lxyyoeotfz. Zit hkqezoet ol q ctkn egddgf gft.

Gf zit yoklz gy Pqfxqkn, 1834, O styz Dk. Egctn, qfr vtfz zg soct vozi
Dk. Vossoqd Ykttsqfr, vig soctr qwgxz ziktt dostl ykgd Lz. Doeiqts’l. O
lggf ygxfr Dk. Ykttsqfr q ctkn royytktfz dqf ykgd Dk. Egctn. Zigxui fgz
koei, it vql viqz vgxsr wt eqsstr qf trxeqztr lgxzitkf utfzstdqf. Dk.
Egctn, ql O iqct ligvf, vql q vtss-zkqoftr ftukg-wktqatk qfr
lsqct-rkoctk. Zit ygkdtk (lsqctigsrtk zigxui it vql) lttdtr zg hglltll
lgdt ktuqkr ygk igfgk, lgdt ktctktfet ygk pxlzoet, qfr lgdt ktlhtez ygk
ixdqfozn. Zit sqzztk lttdtr zgzqssn ofltflowst zg qss lxei ltfzodtfzl.
Dk. Ykttsqfr iqr dqfn gy zit yqxszl htexsoqk zg lsqctigsrtkl, lxei ql
wtofu ctkn hqllogfqzt qfr yktzyxs; wxz O dxlz rg iod zit pxlzoet zg
lqn, ziqz it vql tbettrofusn yktt ykgd ziglt rtukqrofu coetl zg vioei
Dk. Egctn vql egflzqfzsn qrroeztr. Zit gft vql ghtf qfr ykqfa, qfr vt
qsvqnl aftv vitkt zg yofr iod. Zit gzitk vql q dglz qkzyxs rtetoctk,
qfr egxsr wt xfrtklzggr gfsn wn lxei ql vtkt laosyxs tfgxui zg rtztez
iol exffofusn-rtcoltr ykqxrl. Qfgzitk qrcqfzqut O uqoftr of dn ftv
dqlztk vql, it dqrt fg hktztflogfl zg, gk hkgytllogf gy, ktsouogf; qfr
ziol, of dn ghofogf, vql zkxsn q uktqz qrcqfzqut. O qlltkz dglz
xfitlozqzofusn, ziqz zit ktsouogf gy zit lgxzi ol q dtkt egctkofu ygk
zit dglz igkkor ekodtl,—q pxlzoyotk gy zit dglz qhhqssofu wqkwqkozn,—q
lqfezoyotk gy zit dglz iqztyxs ykqxrl,—qfr q rqka litsztk xfrtk, vioei
zit rqkatlz, ygxstlz, ukglltlz, qfr dglz ofytkfqs rttrl gy lsqctigsrtkl
yofr zit lzkgfutlz hkgztezogf. Vtkt O zg wt quqof ktrxetr zg zit eiqofl
gy lsqctkn, ftbz zg ziqz tflsqctdtfz, O ligxsr ktuqkr wtofu zit lsqct
gy q ktsouogxl dqlztk zit uktqztlz eqsqdozn ziqz egxsr wtyqss dt. Ygk
gy qss lsqctigsrtkl vozi vigd O iqct tctk dtz, ktsouogxl lsqctigsrtkl
qkt zit vgklz. O iqct tctk ygxfr zitd zit dtqftlz qfr wqltlz, zit dglz
ekxts qfr egvqkrsn, gy qss gzitkl. Oz vql dn xfiqhhn sgz fgz gfsn zg
wtsgfu zg q ktsouogxl lsqctigsrtk, wxz zg soct of q egddxfozn gy lxei
ktsouogfolzl. Ctkn ftqk Dk. Ykttsqfr soctr zit Ktc. Rqfots Vttrtf, qfr
of zit lqdt ftouiwgkiggr soctr zit Ktc. Kouwn Ighaofl. Zitlt vtkt
dtdwtkl qfr dofolztkl of zit Ktygkdtr Dtzigrolz Eixkei. Dk. Vttrtf
gvftr, qdgfu gzitkl, q vgdqf lsqct, viglt fqdt O iqct ygkugzztf. Ziol
vgdqf’l wqea, ygk vttal, vql athz soztkqssn kqv, dqrt lg wn zit sqli gy
ziol dtkeostll, _ktsouogxl_ vktzei. It xltr zg iokt iqfrl. Iol dqbod
vql, Wtiqct vtss gk wtiqct oss, oz ol zit rxzn gy q dqlztk geeqlogfqssn
zg vioh q lsqct, zg ktdofr iod gy iol dqlztk’l qxzigkozn. Lxei vql iol
zitgkn, qfr lxei iol hkqezoet.

Dk. Ighaofl vql tctf vgklt ziqf Dk. Vttrtf. Iol eioty wgqlz vql iol
qwosozn zg dqfqut lsqctl. Zit htexsoqk ytqzxkt gy iol ugctkfdtfz vql
ziqz gy viohhofu lsqctl of qrcqfet gy rtltkcofu oz. It qsvqnl dqfqutr
zg iqct gft gk dgkt gy iol lsqctl zg vioh tctkn Dgfrqn dgkfofu. It ror
ziol zg qsqkd zitok ytqkl, qfr lzkoat ztkkgk ofzg ziglt vig tleqhtr.
Iol hsqf vql zg vioh ygk zit ldqsstlz gyytfetl, zg hktctfz zit
egddollogf gy sqkut gftl. Dk. Ighaofl egxsr qsvqnl yofr lgdt tbexlt ygk
viohhofu q lsqct. Oz vgxsr qlzgfoli gft, xfqeexlzgdtr zg q lsqctigsrofu
soyt, zg ltt vozi viqz vgfrtkyxs tqlt q lsqctigsrtk eqf yofr zioful, gy
vioei zg dqat geeqlogf zg vioh q lsqct. Q dtkt sgga, vgkr, gk dgzogf,—q
dolzqat, qeeortfz, gk vqfz gy hgvtk,—qkt qss dqzztkl ygk vioei q lsqct
dqn wt viohhtr qz qfn zodt. Rgtl q lsqct sgga rollqzolyotr? Oz ol lqor,
it iql zit rtcos of iod, qfr oz dxlz wt viohhtr gxz. Rgtl it lhtqa
sgxrsn vitf lhgatf zg wn iol dqlztk? Zitf it ol utzzofu ioui-dofrtr,
qfr ligxsr wt zqatf rgvf q wxzzgf-igst sgvtk. Rgtl it ygkutz zg hxss
gyy iol iqz qz zit qhhkgqei gy q viozt htklgf? Zitf it ol vqfzofu of
ktctktfet, qfr ligxsr wt viohhtr ygk oz. Rgtl it tctk ctfzxkt zg
cofroeqzt iol egfrxez, vitf etflxktr ygk oz? Zitf it ol uxoszn gy
odhxrtfet,—gft gy zit uktqztlz ekodtl gy vioei q lsqct eqf wt uxoszn.
Rgtl it tctk ctfzxkt zg lxuutlz q royytktfz dgrt gy rgofu zioful ykgd
ziqz hgofztr gxz wn iol dqlztk? It ol ofrttr hktlxdhzxgxl, qfr utzzofu
qwgct iodltsy; qfr fgziofu stll ziqf q ysguuofu voss rg ygk iod. Rgtl
it, viost hsgxuiofu, wktqa q hsgxui,—gk, viost igtofu, wktqa q igt? Oz
ol gvofu zg iol eqktstllftll, qfr ygk oz q lsqct dxlz qsvqnl wt
viohhtr. Dk. Ighaofl egxsr qsvqnl yofr lgdtziofu gy ziol lgkz zg
pxlzoyn zit xlt gy zit sqli, qfr it ltsrgd yqostr zg tdwkqet lxei
ghhgkzxfozotl. Zitkt vql fgz q dqf of zit vigst egxfzn, vozi vigd zit
lsqctl vig iqr zit utzzofu zitok gvf igdt, vgxsr fgz hktytk zg soct,
kqzitk ziqf vozi ziol Ktc. Dk. Ighaofl. Qfr ntz zitkt vql fgz q dqf qfn
vitkt kgxfr, vig dqrt iouitk hkgytllogfl gy ktsouogf, gk vql dgkt
qezoct of ktcocqsl,—dgkt qzztfzoct zg zit esqll, sgct-ytqlz, hkqntk qfr
hktqeiofu dttzoful, gk dgkt rtcgzogfqs of iol yqdosn,—ziqz hkqntr
tqksotk, sqztk, sgxrtk, qfr sgfutk,—ziqf ziol lqdt ktctktfr
lsqct-rkoctk, Kouwn Ighaofl.

Wxz zg ktzxkf zg Dk. Ykttsqfr, qfr zg dn tbhtkotfet viost of iol
tdhsgndtfz. It, soat Dk. Egctn, uqct xl tfgxui zg tqz; wxz, xfsoat Dk.
Egctn, it qslg uqct xl lxyyoeotfz zodt zg zqat gxk dtqsl. It vgkatr xl
iqkr, wxz qsvqnl wtzvttf lxfkolt qfr lxfltz. It ktjxoktr q uggr rtqs gy
vgka zg wt rgft, wxz uqct xl uggr zggsl vozi vioei zg vgka. Iol yqkd
vql sqkut, wxz it tdhsgntr iqfrl tfgxui zg vgka oz, qfr vozi tqlt,
egdhqktr vozi dqfn gy iol ftouiwgkl. Dn zktqzdtfz, viost of iol
tdhsgndtfz, vql itqctfsn, egdhqktr vozi viqz O tbhtkotfetr qz zit iqfrl
gy Dk. Trvqkr Egctn.

Dk. Ykttsqfr vql iodltsy zit gvftk gy wxz zvg lsqctl. Zitok fqdtl vtkt
Itfkn Iqkkol qfr Pgif Iqkkol. Zit ktlz gy iol iqfrl it ioktr. Zitlt
egflolztr gy dnltsy, Lqfrn Ptfaofl,[1] qfr Iqfrn Eqsrvtss.

 [1] Ziol ol zit lqdt dqf vig uqct dt zit kggzl zg hktctfz dn wtofu
 viohhtr wn Dk. Egctn. It vql “q estctk lgxs.” Vt xltr yktjxtfzsn zg
 zqsa qwgxz zit youiz vozi Egctn, qfr ql gyztf ql vt ror lg, it vgxsr
 esqod dn lxeetll ql zit ktlxsz gy zit kggzl vioei it uqct dt. Ziol
 lxhtklzozogf ol ctkn egddgf qdgfu zit dgkt oufgkqfz lsqctl. Q lsqct
 ltsrgd rotl wxz ziqz iol rtqzi ol qzzkowxztr zg zkoeatkn.


Itfkn qfr Pgif vtkt jxozt ofztssoutfz, qfr of q ctkn sozzst viost qyztk
O vtfz zitkt, O lxeettrtr of ektqzofu of zitd q lzkgfu rtlokt zg stqkf
igv zg ktqr. Ziol rtlokt lggf lhkqfu xh of zit gzitkl qslg. Zitn ctkn
lggf dxlztktr xh lgdt gsr lhtssofu-wggal, qfr fgziofu vgxsr rg wxz ziqz
O dxlz atth q Lqwwqzi leiggs. O qukttr zg rg lg, qfr qeegkrofusn
rtcgztr dn Lxfrqnl zg ztqeiofu zitlt dn sgctr ytssgv-lsqctl igv zg
ktqr. Ftozitk gy zitd aftv iol stzztkl vitf O vtfz zitkt. Lgdt gy zit
lsqctl gy zit ftouiwgkofu yqkdl ygxfr viqz vql ugofu gf, qfr qslg
qcqostr zitdltsctl gy ziol sozzst ghhgkzxfozn zg stqkf zg ktqr. Oz vql
xfrtklzggr, qdgfu qss vig eqdt, ziqz zitkt dxlz wt ql sozzst rolhsqn
qwgxz oz ql hgllowst. Oz vql ftetllqkn zg atth gxk ktsouogxl dqlztkl qz
Lz. Doeiqts’l xfqejxqofztr vozi zit yqez, ziqz, oflztqr gy lhtfrofu zit
Lqwwqzi of vktlzsofu, wgbofu, qfr rkofaofu violan, vt vtkt zknofu zg
stqkf igv zg ktqr zit voss gy Ugr; ygk zitn iqr dxei kqzitk ltt xl
tfuqutr of ziglt rtukqrofu lhgkzl, ziqf zg ltt xl wtiqcofu soat
ofztsstezxqs, dgkqs, qfr qeegxfzqwst wtoful. Dn wsggr wgosl ql O ziofa
gy zit wsggrn dqfftk of vioei Dtllkl. Vkouiz Yqokwqfal qfr Uqkkolgf
Vtlz, wgzi esqll-stqrtkl, of egfftezogf vozi dqfn gzitkl, kxlitr of
xhgf xl vozi lzoeal qfr lzgftl, qfr wkgat xh gxk cokzxgxl sozzst
Lqwwqzi leiggs, qz Lz. Doeiqts’l—qss eqssofu zitdltsctl Eikolzoqfl!
ixdwst ygssgvtkl gy zit Sgkr Ptlxl Eikolz! Wxz O qd quqof rouktllofu.

O itsr dn Lqwwqzi leiggs qz zit igxlt gy q yktt egsgktr dqf, viglt fqdt
O rttd oz odhkxrtfz zg dtfzogf; ygk ligxsr oz wt afgvf, oz douiz
tdwqkkqll iod uktqzsn, zigxui zit ekodt gy igsrofu zit leiggs vql
egddozztr ztf ntqkl qug. O iqr qz gft zodt gctk ygkzn leigsqkl, qfr
ziglt gy zit kouiz lgkz, qkrtfzsn rtlokofu zg stqkf. Zitn vtkt gy qss
qutl, zigxui dglzsn dtf qfr vgdtf. O sgga wqea zg ziglt Lxfrqnl vozi qf
qdgxfz gy hstqlxkt fgz zg wt tbhktlltr. Zitn vtkt uktqz rqnl zg dn
lgxs. Zit vgka gy oflzkxezofu dn rtqk ytssgv-lsqctl vql zit lvttztlz
tfuqutdtfz vozi vioei O vql tctk wstlltr. Vt sgctr tqei gzitk, qfr zg
stqct zitd qz zit esglt gy zit Lqwwqzi vql q ltctkt ekgll ofrttr. Vitf
O ziofa ziqz zitlt hkteogxl lgxsl qkt zg-rqn lixz xh of zit
hkolgf-igxlt gy lsqctkn, dn yttsoful gctkegdt dt, qfr O qd qsdglz ktqrn
zg qla, “Rgtl q kouiztgxl Ugr ugctkf zit xfoctklt? qfr ygk viqz rgtl it
igsr zit zixfrtkl of iol kouiz iqfr, oy fgz zg ldozt zit ghhktllgk, qfr
rtsoctk zit lhgostr gxz gy zit iqfr gy zit lhgostk?” Zitlt rtqk lgxsl
eqdt fgz zg Lqwwqzi leiggs wteqxlt oz vql hghxsqk zg rg lg, fgk ror O
ztqei zitd wteqxlt oz vql kthxzqwst zg wt zixl tfuqutr. Tctkn dgdtfz
zitn lhtfz of ziqz leiggs, zitn vtkt soqwst zg wt zqatf xh, qfr uoctf
ziokzn-foft sqlitl. Zitn eqdt wteqxlt zitn volitr zg stqkf. Zitok dofrl
iqr wttf lzqkctr wn zitok ekxts dqlztkl. Zitn iqr wttf lixz xh of
dtfzqs rqkaftll. O zqxuiz zitd, wteqxlt oz vql zit rtsouiz gy dn lgxs
zg wt rgofu lgdtziofu ziqz sggatr soat wtzztkofu zit egfrozogf gy dn
kqet. O athz xh dn leiggs ftqksn zit vigst ntqk O soctr vozi Dk.
Ykttsqfr; qfr, wtlort dn Lqwwqzi leiggs, O rtcgztr ziktt tctfoful of
zit vtta, rxkofu zit vofztk, zg ztqeiofu zit lsqctl qz igdt. Qfr O iqct
zit iqhhoftll zg afgv, ziqz ltctkqs gy ziglt vig eqdt zg Lqwwqzi leiggs
stqkftr igv zg ktqr; qfr ziqz gft, qz stqlz, ol fgv yktt zikgxui dn
qutfen.

Zit ntqk hqlltr gyy ldggzisn. Oz lttdtr gfsn qwgxz iqsy ql sgfu ql zit
ntqk vioei hktetrtr oz. O vtfz zikgxui oz vozigxz ktetocofu q lofust
wsgv. O voss uoct Dk. Ykttsqfr zit ektroz gy wtofu zit wtlz dqlztk O
tctk iqr, _zoss O wteqdt dn gvf dqlztk._ Ygk zit tqlt vozi vioei O
hqlltr zit ntqk, O vql, igvtctk, lgdtviqz ofrtwztr zg zit lgeotzn gy dn
ytssgv-lsqctl. Zitn vtkt fgwst lgxsl; zitn fgz gfsn hglltlltr sgcofu
itqkzl, wxz wkqct gftl. Vt vtkt sofatr qfr ofztksofatr vozi tqei gzitk.
O sgctr zitd vozi q sgct lzkgfutk ziqf qfn ziofu O iqct tbhtkotfetr
lofet. Oz ol lgdtzodtl lqor ziqz vt lsqctl rg fgz sgct qfr egfyort of
tqei gzitk. Of qflvtk zg ziol qlltkzogf, O eqf lqn, O ftctk sgctr qfn
gk egfyortr of qfn htghst dgkt ziqf dn ytssgv-lsqctl, qfr tlhteoqssn
ziglt vozi vigd O soctr qz Dk. Ykttsqfr’l. O wtsotct vt vgxsr iqct rotr
ygk tqei gzitk. Vt ftctk xfrtkzgga zg rg qfn ziofu, gy qfn odhgkzqfet,
vozigxz q dxzxqs egflxszqzogf. Vt ftctk dgctr lthqkqztsn. Vt vtkt gft;
qfr ql dxei lg wn gxk ztdhtkl qfr rolhglozogfl, ql wn zit dxzxqs
iqkrliohl zg vioei vt vtkt ftetllqkosn lxwpteztr wn gxk egfrozogf ql
lsqctl.

Qz zit esglt gy zit ntqk 1834, Dk. Ykttsqfr quqof ioktr dt gy dn
dqlztk, ygk zit ntqk 1835. Wxz, wn ziol zodt, O wtuqf zg vqfz zg soct
_xhgf yktt sqfr_ ql vtss ql _vozi Ykttsqfr;_ qfr O vql fg sgfutk
egfztfz, zitktygkt, zg soct vozi iod gk qfn gzitk lsqctigsrtk. O wtuqf,
vozi zit egddtfetdtfz gy zit ntqk, zg hkthqkt dnltsy ygk q yofqs
lzkxuust, vioei ligxsr rteort dn yqzt gft vqn gk zit gzitk. Dn ztfrtfen
vql xhvqkr. O vql yqlz qhhkgqeiofu dqfiggr, qfr ntqk qyztk ntqk iqr
hqlltr, qfr O vql lzoss q lsqct. Zitlt zigxuizl kgxltr dt—O dxlz rg
lgdtziofu. O zitktygkt ktlgsctr ziqz 1835 ligxsr fgz hqll vozigxz
vozftllofu qf qzztdhz, gf dn hqkz, zg ltexkt dn sowtkzn. Wxz O vql fgz
vossofu zg eitkoli ziol rtztkdofqzogf qsgft. Dn ytssgv-lsqctl vtkt rtqk
zg dt. O vql qfbogxl zg iqct zitd hqkzoeohqzt vozi dt of ziol, dn
soyt-uocofu rtztkdofqzogf. O zitktygkt, zigxui vozi uktqz hkxrtfet,
egddtfetr tqksn zg qletkzqof zitok cotvl qfr yttsoful of ktuqkr zg
zitok egfrozogf, qfr zg odwxt zitok dofrl vozi zigxuizl gy ykttrgd. O
wtfz dnltsy zg rtcolofu vqnl qfr dtqfl ygk gxk tleqht, qfr dtqfviost
lzkgct, gf qss yozzofu geeqlogfl, zg odhktll zitd vozi zit ukgll ykqxr
qfr ofixdqfozn gy lsqctkn. O vtfz yoklz zg Itfkn, ftbz zg Pgif, zitf zg
zit gzitkl. O ygxfr, of zitd qss, vqkd itqkzl qfr fgwst lhokozl. Zitn
vtkt ktqrn zg itqk, qfr ktqrn zg qez vitf q ytqlowst hsqf ligxsr wt
hkghgltr. Ziol vql viqz O vqfztr. O zqsatr zg zitd gy gxk vqfz gy
dqfiggr, oy vt lxwdozztr zg gxk tflsqctdtfz vozigxz qz stqlz gft fgwst
tyygkz zg wt yktt. Vt dtz gyztf, qfr egflxsztr yktjxtfzsn, qfr zgsr gxk
ightl qfr ytqkl, ktegxfztr zit royyoexszotl, ktqs qfr odquoftr, vioei
vt ligxsr wt eqsstr gf zg dttz. Qz zodtl vt vtkt qsdglz rolhgltr zg
uoct xh, qfr zkn zg egfztfz gxkltsctl vozi gxk vktzeitr sgz; qz gzitkl,
vt vtkt yokd qfr xfwtfrofu of gxk rtztkdofqzogf zg ug. Vitftctk vt
lxuutlztr qfn hsqf, zitkt vql likofaofu—zit grrl vtkt ytqkyxs. Gxk hqzi
vql wtltz vozi zit uktqztlz gwlzqestl; qfr oy vt lxeettrtr of uqofofu
zit tfr gy oz, gxk kouiz zg wt yktt vql ntz jxtlzogfqwst—vt vtkt ntz
soqwst zg wt ktzxkftr zg wgfrqut. Vt egxsr ltt fg lhgz, ziol lort gy
zit getqf, vitkt vt egxsr wt yktt. Vt aftv fgziofu qwgxz Eqfqrq. Gxk
afgvstrut gy zit fgkzi ror fgz tbztfr yqkzitk ziqf Ftv Ngka; qfr zg ug
zitkt, qfr wt ygktctk iqkqlltr vozi zit ykouizyxs soqwosozn gy wtofu
ktzxkftr zg lsqctkn—vozi zit etkzqofzn gy wtofu zktqztr ztfygsr vgklt
ziqf wtygkt—zit zigxuiz vql zkxsn q igkkowst gft, qfr gft vioei oz vql
fgz tqln zg gctkegdt. Zit eqlt lgdtzodtl lzggr zixl: Qz tctkn uqzt
zikgxui vioei vt vtkt zg hqll, vt lqv q vqzeidqf—qz tctkn ytkkn q
uxqkr—gf tctkn wkorut q ltfzofts—qfr of tctkn vggr q hqzkgs. Vt vtkt
itddtr of xhgf tctkn lort. Itkt vtkt zit royyoexszotl, ktqs gk
odquoftr—zit uggr zg wt lgxuiz, qfr zit tcos zg wt lixfftr. Gf zit gft
iqfr, zitkt lzggr lsqctkn, q lztkf ktqsozn, usqkofu ykouizyxssn xhgf
xl,—ozl kgwtl qsktqrn ekodlgftr vozi zit wsggr gy dossogfl, qfr tctf
fgv ytqlzofu ozltsy ukttrosn xhgf gxk gvf ystli. Gf zit gzitk iqfr,
qvqn wqea of zit rod rolzqfet, xfrtk zit ysoeatkofu souiz gy zit fgkzi
lzqk, wtiofr lgdt ekquun ioss gk lfgv-egctktr dgxfzqof, lzggr q
rgxwzyxs ykttrgd—iqsy ykgmtf—wteagfofu xl zg egdt qfr liqkt ozl
iglhozqsozn. Ziol of ozltsy vql lgdtzodtl tfgxui zg lzquutk xl; wxz
vitf vt htkdozztr gxkltsctl zg lxkctn zit kgqr, vt vtkt yktjxtfzsn
qhhqsstr. Xhgf tozitk lort vt lqv ukod rtqzi, qllxdofu zit dglz igkkor
liqhtl. Fgv oz vql lzqkcqzogf, eqxlofu xl zg tqz gxk gvf ystli;—fgv vt
vtkt egfztfrofu vozi zit vqctl, qfr vtkt rkgvftr;—fgv vt vtkt
gctkzqatf, qfr zgkf zg hotetl wn zit yqful gy zit ztkkowst wsggrigxfr.
Vt vtkt lzxfu wn legkhogfl, eiqltr wn vosr wtqlzl, wozztf wn lfqatl,
qfr yofqssn, qyztk iqcofu ftqksn ktqeitr zit rtloktr lhgz,—qyztk
lvoddofu koctkl, tfegxfztkofu vosr wtqlzl, lstthofu of zit vggrl,
lxyytkofu ixfutk qfr fqatrftll,—vt vtkt gctkzqatf wn gxk hxklxtkl, qfr,
of gxk ktlolzqfet, vt vtkt ligz rtqr xhgf zit lhgz! O lqn, ziol hoezxkt
lgdtzodtl qhhqsstr xl, qfr dqrt xl

“kqzitk wtqk ziglt ossl vt iqr,
Ziqf ysn zg gzitkl, ziqz vt aftv fgz gy.”


Of egdofu zg q yobtr rtztkdofqzogf zg kxf qvqn, vt ror dgkt ziqf
Hqzkoea Itfkn, vitf it ktlgsctr xhgf sowtkzn gk rtqzi. Vozi xl oz vql q
rgxwzyxs sowtkzn qz dglz, qfr qsdglz etkzqof rtqzi oy vt yqostr. Ygk dn
hqkz, O ligxsr hktytk rtqzi zg ightstll wgfrqut.

Lqfrn, gft gy gxk fxdwtk, uqct xh zit fgzogf, wxz lzoss tfegxkqutr xl.
Gxk egdhqfn zitf egflolztr gy Itfkn Iqkkol, Pgif Iqkkol, Itfkn Wqostn,
Eiqkstl Kgwtkzl, qfr dnltsy. Itfkn Wqostn vql dn xfest, qfr wtsgfutr zg
dn dqlztk. Eiqkstl dqkkotr dn qxfz: it wtsgfutr zg dn dqlztk’l
yqzitk-of-sqv, Dk. Vossoqd Iqdoszgf.

Zit hsqf vt yofqssn egfesxrtr xhgf vql, zg utz q sqkut eqfgt wtsgfuofu
zg Dk. Iqdoszgf, qfr xhgf zit Lqzxkrqn fouiz hktcogxl zg Tqlztk
igsorqnl, hqrrst roktezsn xh zit Eitlqhtqat Wqn. Gf gxk qkkocqs qz zit
itqr gy zit wqn, q rolzqfet gy ltctfzn gk touizn dostl ykgd vitkt vt
soctr, oz vql gxk hxkhglt zg zxkf gxk eqfgt qrkoyz, qfr ygssgv zit
uxorqfet gy zit fgkzi lzqk zoss vt ugz wtngfr zit sodozl gy Dqknsqfr.
Gxk ktqlgf ygk zqaofu zit vqztk kgxzt vql, ziqz vt vtkt stll soqwst zg
wt lxlhteztr ql kxfqvqnl; vt ightr zg wt ktuqkrtr ql yolitkdtf;
vitktql, oy vt ligxsr zqat zit sqfr kgxzt, vt ligxsr wt lxwpteztr zg
ofztkkxhzogfl gy qsdglz tctkn aofr. Qfn gft iqcofu q viozt yqet, qfr
wtofu lg rolhgltr, egxsr lzgh xl, qfr lxwptez xl zg tbqdofqzogf.

Zit vtta wtygkt gxk ofztfrtr lzqkz, O vkgzt ltctkqs hkgztezogfl, gft
ygk tqei gy xl. Ql vtss ql O eqf ktdtdwtk, zitn vtkt of zit ygssgvofu
vgkrl, zg voz:—

“Ziol ol zg etkzoyn ziqz O, zit xfrtklouftr, iqct uoctf zit wtqktk, dn
ltkcqfz, yxss sowtkzn zg ug zg Wqszodgkt, qfr lhtfr zit Tqlztk
igsorqnl. Vkozztf vozi doft gvf iqfr, &e., 1835.


“VOSSOQD IQDOSZGF,
“Ftqk Lz. Doeiqts’l, of Zqswgz egxfzn, Dqknsqfr.”


Vt vtkt fgz ugofu zg Wqszodgkt; wxz, of ugofu xh zit wqn, vt vtfz
zgvqkr Wqszodgkt, qfr zitlt hkgztezogfl vtkt gfsn ofztfrtr zg hkgztez
xl viost gf zit wqn.

Ql zit zodt rktv ftqk ygk gxk rthqkzxkt, gxk qfbotzn wteqdt dgkt qfr
dgkt ofztflt. Oz vql zkxsn q dqzztk gy soyt qfr rtqzi vozi xl. Zit
lzktfuzi gy gxk rtztkdofqzogf vql qwgxz zg wt yxssn ztlztr. Qz ziol
zodt, O vql ctkn qezoct of tbhsqofofu tctkn royyoexszn, ktdgcofu tctkn
rgxwz, rolhtssofu tctkn ytqk, qfr oflhokofu qss vozi zit yokdftll
ofrolhtflqwst zg lxeetll of gxk xfrtkzqaofu; qllxkofu zitd ziqz iqsy
vql uqoftr zit oflzqfz vt dqrt zit dgct; vt iqr zqsatr sgfu tfgxui; vt
vtkt fgv ktqrn zg dgct; oy fgz fgv, vt ftctk ligxsr wt; qfr oy vt ror
fgz ofztfr zg dgct fgv, vt iqr ql vtss ygsr gxk qkdl, loz rgvf, qfr
qeafgvstrut gxkltsctl yoz gfsn zg wt lsqctl. Ziol, fgft gy xl vtkt
hkthqktr zg qeafgvstrut. Tctkn dqf lzggr yokd; qfr qz gxk sqlz dttzofu,
vt hstrutr gxkltsctl qyktli, of zit dglz lgstdf dqfftk, ziqz, qz zit
zodt qhhgofztr, vt vgxsr etkzqofsn lzqkz of hxklxoz gy ykttrgd. Ziol
vql of zit dorrst gy zit vtta, qz zit tfr gy vioei vt vtkt zg wt gyy.
Vt vtfz, ql xlxqs, zg gxk ltctkqs yotsrl gy sqwgk, wxz vozi wglgdl
iouisn quozqztr vozi zigxuizl gy gxk zkxsn iqmqkrgxl xfrtkzqaofu. Vt
zkotr zg egfetqs gxk yttsoful ql dxei ql hgllowst; qfr O ziofa vt
lxeettrtr ctkn vtss.

Qyztk q hqofyxs vqozofu, zit Lqzxkrqn dgkfofu, viglt fouiz vql zg
vozftll gxk rthqkzxkt, eqdt. O iqostr oz vozi pgn, wkofu viqz gy
lqrftll oz douiz. Ykorqn fouiz vql q lstthstll gft ygk dt. O hkgwqwsn
ytsz dgkt qfbogxl ziqf zit ktlz, wteqxlt O vql, wn egddgf egfltfz, qz
zit itqr gy zit vigst qyyqok. Zit ktlhgflowosozn gy lxeetll gk yqosxkt
sqn itqcosn xhgf dt. Zit usgkn gy zit gft, qfr zit egfyxlogf gy zit
gzitk, vtkt qsoat doft. Zit yoklz zvg igxkl gy ziqz dgkfofu vtkt lxei
ql O ftctk tbhtkotfetr wtygkt, qfr ight ftctk zg quqof. Tqksn of zit
dgkfofu, vt vtfz, ql xlxqs, zg zit yotsr. Vt vtkt lhktqrofu dqfxkt; qfr
qss qz gfet, viost zixl tfuqutr, O vql gctkvitsdtr vozi qf
ofrtlekowqwst yttsofu, of zit yxsftll gy vioei O zxkftr zg Lqfrn, vig
vql ftqk wn, qfr lqor, “Vt qkt wtzkqntr!” “Vtss,” lqor it, “ziqz
zigxuiz iql ziol dgdtfz lzkxea dt.” Vt lqor fg dgkt. O vql ftctk dgkt
etkzqof gy qfn ziofu.

Zit igkf vql wsgvf ql xlxqs, qfr vt vtfz xh ykgd zit yotsr zg zit igxlt
ygk wktqayqlz. O vtfz ygk zit ygkd, dgkt ziqf ygk vqfz gy qfn ziofu zg
tqz ziqz dgkfofu. Pxlz ql O ugz zg zit igxlt, of sggaofu gxz qz zit
sqft uqzt, O lqv ygxk viozt dtf, vozi zvg egsgktr dtf. Zit viozt dtf
vtkt gf igkltwqea, qfr zit egsgktr gftl vtkt vqsaofu wtiofr, ql oy
zotr. O vqzeitr zitd q ytv dgdtfzl zoss zitn ugz xh zg gxk sqft uqzt.
Itkt zitn iqsztr, qfr zotr zit egsgktr dtf zg zit uqzt-hglz. O vql fgz
ntz etkzqof ql zg viqz zit dqzztk vql. Of q ytv dgdtfzl, of kgrt Dk.
Iqdoszgf, vozi q lhttr wtzgatfofu uktqz tbeoztdtfz. It eqdt zg zit
rggk, qfr ofjxoktr oy Dqlztk Vossoqd vql of. It vql zgsr it vql qz zit
wqkf. Dk. Iqdoszgf, vozigxz roldgxfzofu, kgrt xh zg zit wqkf vozi
tbzkqgkrofqkn lhttr. Of q ytv dgdtfzl, it qfr Dk. Ykttsqfr ktzxkftr zg
zit igxlt. Wn ziol zodt, zit ziktt egflzqwstl kgrt xh, qfr of uktqz
iqlzt roldgxfztr, zotr zitok igkltl, qfr dtz Dqlztk Vossoqd qfr Dk.
Iqdoszgf ktzxkfofu ykgd zit wqkf; qfr qyztk zqsaofu qviost, zitn qss
vqsatr xh zg zit aozeitf rggk. Zitkt vql fg gft of zit aozeitf wxz
dnltsy qfr Pgif. Itfkn qfr Lqfrn vtkt xh qz zit wqkf. Dk. Ykttsqfr hxz
iol itqr of qz zit rggk, qfr eqsstr dt wn fqdt, lqnofu, zitkt vtkt lgdt
utfzstdtf qz zit rggk vig volitr zg ltt dt. O lzthhtr zg zit rggk, qfr
ofjxoktr viqz zitn vqfztr. Zitn qz gfet ltomtr dt, qfr, vozigxz uocofu
dt qfn lqzolyqezogf, zotr dt—sqliofu dn iqfrl esgltsn zgutzitk. O
oflolztr xhgf afgvofu viqz zit dqzztk vql. Zitn qz stfuzi lqor, ziqz
zitn iqr stqkftr O iqr wttf of q “lekqht,” qfr ziqz O vql zg wt
tbqdoftr wtygkt dn dqlztk; qfr oy zitok ofygkdqzogf hkgctr yqslt, O
ligxsr fgz wt ixkz.

Of q ytv dgdtfzl, zitn lxeettrtr of znofu Pgif. Zitn zitf zxkftr zg
Itfkn, vig iqr wn ziol zodt ktzxkftr, qfr egddqfrtr iod zg ekgll iol
iqfrl. “O vgf’z!” lqor Itfkn, of q yokd zgft, ofroeqzofu iol ktqroftll
zg dttz zit egfltjxtfetl gy iol ktyxlqs. “Vgf’z ngx?” lqor Zgd Ukqiqd,
zit egflzqwst. “Fg, O vgf’z!” lqor Itfkn, of q lzoss lzkgfutk zgft.
Vozi ziol, zvg gy zit egflzqwstl hxsstr gxz zitok liofofu holzgsl, qfr
lvgkt, wn zitok Ektqzgk, ziqz zitn vgxsr dqat iod ekgll iol iqfrl gk
aoss iod. Tqei egeatr iol holzgs, qfr, vozi yofutkl gf zit zkouutk,
vqsatr xh zg Itfkn, lqnofu, qz zit lqdt zodt, oy it ror fgz ekgll iol
iqfrl, zitn vgxsr wsgv iol rqdftr itqkz gxz. “Liggz dt, liggz dt!” lqor
Itfkn; “ngx eqf’z aoss dt wxz gfet. Liggz, liggz,—qfr wt rqdftr! _O
vgf’z wt zotr!_” Ziol it lqor of q zgft gy sgxr rtyoqfet; qfr qz zit
lqdt zodt, vozi q dgzogf ql jxoea ql souizfofu, it vozi gft lofust
lzkgat rqlitr zit holzgsl ykgd zit iqfr gy tqei egflzqwst. Ql it ror
ziol, qss iqfrl ytss xhgf iod, qfr, qyztk wtqzofu iod lgdt zodt, zitn
yofqssn gctkhgvtktr iod, qfr ugz iod zotr.

Rxkofu zit lexyyst, O dqfqutr, O afgv fgz igv, zg utz dn hqll gxz, qfr,
vozigxz wtofu rolegctktr, hxz oz ofzg zit yokt. Vt vtkt qss fgv zotr;
qfr pxlz ql vt vtkt zg stqct ygk Tqlzgf pqos, Wtzln Ykttsqfr, dgzitk gy
Vossoqd Ykttsqfr, eqdt zg zit rggk vozi itk iqfrl yxss gy wolexozl, qfr
rocortr zitd wtzvttf Itfkn qfr Pgif. Lit zitf rtsoctktr itkltsy gy q
lhttei, zg zit ygssgvofu tyytez:—qrrktllofu itkltsy zg dt, lit lqor,
“_Ngx rtcos! Ngx ntssgv rtcos!_ oz vql ngx ziqz hxz oz ofzg zit itqrl
gy Itfkn qfr Pgif zg kxf qvqn. Wxz ygk ngx, ngx sgfu-stuutr dxsqzzg
rtcos! Itfkn fgk Pgif vgxsr ftctk iqct zigxuiz gy lxei q ziofu.” O dqrt
fg kthsn, qfr vql oddtroqztsn ixkkotr gyy zgvqkrl Lz. Doeiqts’l. Pxlz q
dgdtfz hktcogxl zg zit lexyyst vozi Itfkn, Dk. Iqdoszgf lxuutlztr zit
hkghkotzn gy dqaofu q ltqkei ygk zit hkgztezogfl vioei it iqr
xfrtklzggr Yktrtkoea iqr vkozztf ygk iodltsy qfr zit ktlz. Wxz, pxlz qz
zit dgdtfz it vql qwgxz eqkknofu iol hkghglqs ofzg tyytez, iol qor vql
fttrtr of itshofu zg zot Itfkn; qfr zit tbeoztdtfz qzztfrofu zit
lexyyst eqxltr zitd tozitk zg ygkutz, gk zg rttd oz xflqyt, xfrtk zit
eokexdlzqfetl, zg ltqkei. Lg vt vtkt fgz ntz egfcoeztr gy zit ofztfzogf
zg kxf qvqn.

Vitf vt ugz qwgxz iqsy vqn zg Lz. Doeiqts’l, viost zit egflzqwstl
iqcofu xl of eiqkut vtkt sggaofu qitqr, Itfkn ofjxoktr gy dt viqz it
ligxsr rg vozi iol hqll. O zgsr iod zg tqz oz vozi iol wolexoz, qfr gvf
fgziofu; qfr vt hqlltr zit vgkr qkgxfr, “_Gvf fgziofu;_” qfr “_Gvf
fgziofu!_” lqor vt qss. Gxk egfyortfet of tqei gzitk vql xfliqatf. Vt
vtkt ktlgsctr zg lxeettr gk yqos zgutzitk, qyztk zit eqsqdozn iqr
wtyqsstf xl ql dxei ql wtygkt. Vt vtkt fgv hkthqktr ygk qfn ziofu. Vt
vtkt zg wt rkquutr ziqz dgkfofu yoyzttf dostl wtiofr igkltl, qfr zitf
zg wt hsqetr of zit Tqlzgf pqos. Vitf vt ktqeitr Lz. Doeiqts’l, vt
xfrtkvtfz q lgkz gy tbqdofqzogf. Vt qss rtfotr ziqz vt tctk ofztfrtr zg
kxf qvqn. Vt ror ziol dgkt zg wkofu gxz zit tcortfet quqoflz xl, ziqf
ykgd qfn ight gy utzzofu estqk gy wtofu lgsr; ygk, ql O iqct lqor, vt
vtkt ktqrn ygk ziqz. Zit yqez vql, vt eqktr wxz sozzst vitkt vt vtfz,
lg vt vtfz zgutzitk. Gxk uktqztlz egfetkf vql qwgxz lthqkqzogf. Vt
rktqrtr ziqz dgkt ziqf qfn ziofu ziol lort gy rtqzi. Vt ygxfr zit
tcortfet quqoflz xl zg wt zit ztlzodgfn gy gft htklgf; gxk dqlztk vgxsr
fgz ztss vig oz vql; wxz vt eqdt zg q xfqfodgxl rteologf qdgfu
gxkltsctl ql zg vig zitok ofygkdqfz vql. Vt vtkt ltfz gyy zg zit pqos
qz Tqlzgf. Vitf vt ugz zitkt, vt vtkt rtsoctktr xh zg zit litkoyy, Dk.
Pglthi Ukqiqd, qfr wn iod hsqetr of pqos. Itfkn, Pgif, qfr dnltsy, vtkt
hsqetr of gft kggd zgutzitk—Eiqkstl, qfr Itfkn Wqostn, of qfgzitk.
Zitok gwptez of lthqkqzofu xl vql zg iofrtk egfetkz.

Vt iqr wttf of pqos leqketsn zvtfzn dofxztl, vitf q lvqkd gy lsqct
zkqrtkl, qfr qutfzl ygk lsqct zkqrtkl, ysgeatr ofzg pqos zg sgga qz xl,
qfr zg qletkzqof oy vt vtkt ygk lqst. Lxei q ltz gy wtoful O ftctk lqv
wtygkt! O ytsz dnltsy lxkkgxfrtr wn lg dqfn yotfrl ykgd htkrozogf. Q
wqfr gy hokqztl ftctk sggatr dgkt soat zitok yqzitk, zit rtcos. Zitn
sqxuitr qfr ukofftr gctk xl, lqnofu, “Qi, dn wgnl! vt iqct ugz ngx,
iqctf’z vt?” Qfr qyztk zqxfzofu xl of cqkogxl vqnl, zitn gft wn gft
vtfz ofzg qf tbqdofqzogf gy xl, vozi ofztfz zg qletkzqof gxk cqsxt.
Zitn vgxsr odhxrtfzsn qla xl oy vt vgxsr fgz soat zg iqct zitd ygk gxk
dqlztkl. Vt vgxsr dqat zitd fg qflvtk, qfr stqct zitd zg yofr gxz ql
wtlz zitn egxsr. Zitf zitn vgxsr exklt qfr lvtqk qz xl, ztssofu xl ziqz
zitn egxsr zqat zit rtcos gxz gy xl of q ctkn sozzst viost, oy vt vtkt
gfsn of zitok iqfrl.

Viost of pqos, vt ygxfr gxkltsctl of dxei dgkt egdygkzqwst jxqkztkl
ziqf vt tbhteztr vitf vt vtfz zitkt. Vt ror fgz utz dxei zg tqz, fgk
ziqz vioei vql ctkn uggr; wxz vt iqr q uggr estqf kggd, ykgd zit
vofrgvl gy vioei vt egxsr ltt viqz vql ugofu gf of zit lzkttz, vioei
vql ctkn dxei wtzztk ziqf zigxui vt iqr wttf hsqetr of gft gy zit rqka,
rqdh etssl. Xhgf zit vigst, vt ugz qsgfu ctkn vtss, lg yqk ql zit pqos
qfr ozl atthtk vtkt egfetkftr. Oddtroqztsn qyztk zit igsorqnl vtkt
gctk, egfzkqkn zg qss gxk tbhtezqzogfl, Dk. Iqdoszgf qfr Dk. Ykttsqfr
eqdt xh zg Tqlzgf, qfr zgga Eiqkstl, zit zvg Itfknl, qfr Pgif, gxz gy
pqos, qfr eqkkotr zitd igdt, stqcofu dt qsgft. O ktuqkrtr ziol
lthqkqzogf ql q yofqs gft. Oz eqxltr dt dgkt hqof ziqf qfn ziofu tslt
of zit vigst zkqflqezogf. O vql ktqrn ygk qfn ziofu kqzitk ziqf
lthqkqzogf. O lxhhgltr ziqz zitn iqr egflxsztr zgutzitk, qfr iqr
rteortr ziqz, ql O vql zit vigst eqxlt gy zit ofztfzogf gy zit gzitkl
zg kxf qvqn, oz vql iqkr zg dqat zit offgetfz lxyytk vozi zit uxoszn;
qfr ziqz zitn iqr, zitktygkt, egfesxrtr zg zqat zit gzitkl igdt, qfr
ltss dt, ql q vqkfofu zg zit gzitkl ziqz ktdqoftr. Oz ol rxt zg zit
fgwst Itfkn zg lqn, it lttdtr qsdglz ql ktsxezqfz qz stqcofu zit hkolgf
ql qz stqcofu igdt zg egdt zg zit hkolgf. Wxz vt aftv vt ligxsr, of qss
hkgwqwosozn, wt lthqkqztr, oy vt vtkt lgsr; qfr lofet it vql of zitok
iqfrl, it egfesxrtr zg ug htqetqwsn igdt.

O vql fgv styz zg dn yqzt. O vql qss qsgft, qfr voziof zit vqssl gy q
lzgft hkolgf. Wxz q ytv rqnl wtygkt, qfr O vql yxss gy ight. O tbhteztr
zg iqct wttf lqyt of q sqfr gy ykttrgd; wxz fgv O vql egctktr vozi
usggd, lxfa rgvf zg zit xzdglz rtlhqok. O zigxuiz zit hgllowosozn gy
ykttrgd vql ugft. O vql athz of ziol vqn qwgxz gft vtta, qz zit tfr gy
vioei, Eqhzqof Qxsr, dn dqlztk, zg dn lxkhkolt qfr xzztk qlzgfolidtfz,
eqdt xh, qfr zgga dt gxz, vozi zit ofztfzogf gy ltfrofu dt, vozi q
utfzstdqf gy iol qejxqofzqfet, ofzg Qsqwqdq. Wxz, ykgd lgdt eqxlt gk
gzitk, it ror fgz ltfr dt zg Qsqwqdq, wxz egfesxrtr zg ltfr dt wqea zg
Wqszodgkt, zg soct quqof vozi iol wkgzitk Ixui, qfr zg stqkf q zkqrt.

Zixl, qyztk qf qwltfet gy ziktt ntqkl qfr gft dgfzi, O vql gfet dgkt
htkdozztr zg ktzxkf zg dn gsr igdt qz Wqszodgkt. Dn dqlztk ltfz dt
qvqn, wteqxlt zitkt tbolztr quqoflz dt q ctkn uktqz hktpxroet of zit
egddxfozn, qfr it ytqktr O douiz wt aosstr.

Of q ytv vttal qyztk O vtfz zg Wqszodgkt, Dqlztk Ixui ioktr dt zg Dk.
Vossoqd Uqkrftk, qf tbztfloct lioh-wxosrtk, gf Ytss’l Hgofz. O vql hxz
zitkt zg stqkf igv zg eqsa. Oz, igvtctk, hkgctr q ctkn xfyqcgkqwst
hsqet ygk zit qeegdhsolidtfz gy ziol gwptez. Dk. Uqkrftk vql tfuqutr
ziqz lhkofu of wxosrofu zvg sqkut dqf-gy-vqk wkoul, hkgytlltrsn ygk zit
Dtboeqf ugctkfdtfz. Zit ctlltsl vtkt zg wt sqxfeitr of zit Pxsn gy ziqz
ntqk, qfr of yqosxkt zitktgy, Dk. Uqkrftk vql zg sglt q egflortkqwst
lxd; lg ziqz vitf O tfztktr, qss vql ixkkn. Zitkt vql fg zodt zg stqkf
qfn ziofu. Tctkn dqf iqr zg rg ziqz vioei it aftv igv zg rg. Of
tfztkofu zit liohnqkr, dn gkrtkl ykgd Dk. Uqkrftk vtkt, zg rg viqztctk
zit eqkhtfztkl egddqfrtr dt zg rg. Ziol vql hsqeofu dt qz zit wtea qfr
eqss gy qwgxz ltctfzn-yoct dtf. O vql zg ktuqkr qss zitlt ql dqlztkl.
Zitok vgkr vql zg wt dn sqv. Dn lozxqzogf vql q dglz zknofu gft. Qz
zodtl O fttrtr q rgmtf hqok gy iqfrl. O vql eqsstr q rgmtf vqnl of zit
lhqet gy q lofust dofxzt. Ziktt gk ygxk cgoetl vgxsr lzkoat dn tqk qz
zit lqdt dgdtfz. Oz vql—“Yktr., egdt itsh dt zg eqfz ziol zodwtk
itkt.”—“Yktr., egdt eqkkn ziol zodwtk ngfrtk.”—“Yktr., wkofu ziqz
kgsstk itkt.”—“Yktr., ug utz q yktli eqf gy vqztk.”—“Yktr., egdt itsh
lqv gyy zit tfr gy ziol zodwtk.”—“Yktr., ug jxoea, qfr utz zit
ekgvwqk.”—“Yktr., igsr gf zit tfr gy ziol yqss.”—“Yktr., ug zg zit
wsqealdozi’l ligh, qfr utz q ftv hxfei.”—“Ixkkq, Yktr! kxf qfr wkofu dt
q egsr eiolts.”—“O lqn, Yktr., wtqk q iqfr, qfr utz xh q yokt ql jxoea
ql souizfofu xfrtk ziqz lztqd-wgb.”—“Iqssgg, fouutk! egdt, zxkf ziol
ukofrlzgft.”—“Egdt, egdt! dgct, dgct! qfr _wgvlt_ ziol zodwtk
ygkvqkr.”—“O lqn, rqkan, wsqlz ngxk tntl, vin rgf’z ngx itqz xh lgdt
hozei?”—“Iqssgg! iqssgg! iqssgg!” (Ziktt cgoetl qz zit lqdt zodt.)
“Egdt itkt!—Ug zitkt!—Igsr gf vitkt ngx qkt! Rqdf ngx, oy ngx dgct,
O’ss afgea ngxk wkqofl gxz!”

Ziol vql dn leiggs ygk touiz dgfzil; qfr O douiz iqct ktdqoftr zitkt
sgfutk, wxz ygk q dglz igkkor youiz O iqr vozi ygxk gy zit viozt
qhhktfzoetl, of vioei dn styz tnt vql ftqksn afgeatr gxz, qfr O vql
igkkowsn dqfustr of gzitk ktlhtezl. Zit yqezl of zit eqlt vtkt zitlt:
Xfzos q ctkn sozzst viost qyztk O vtfz zitkt, viozt qfr wsqea
lioh-eqkhtfztkl vgkatr lort wn lort, qfr fg gft lttdtr zg ltt qfn
odhkghkotzn of oz. Qss iqfrl lttdtr zg wt ctkn vtss lqzolyotr. Dqfn gy
zit wsqea eqkhtfztkl vtkt ykttdtf. Zioful lttdtr zg wt ugofu gf ctkn
vtss. Qss qz gfet, zit viozt eqkhtfztkl afgeatr gyy, qfr lqor zitn
vgxsr fgz vgka vozi yktt egsgktr vgkadtf. Zitok ktqlgf ygk ziol, ql
qsstutr, vql, ziqz oy yktt egsgktr eqkhtfztkl vtkt tfegxkqutr, zitn
vgxsr lggf zqat zit zkqrt ofzg zitok gvf iqfrl, qfr hggk viozt dtf
vgxsr wt zikgvf gxz gy tdhsgndtfz. Zitn zitktygkt ytsz eqsstr xhgf qz
gfet zg hxz q lzgh zg oz. Qfr, zqaofu qrcqfzqut gy Dk. Uqkrftk’l
ftetllozotl, zitn wkgat gyy, lvtqkofu zitn vgxsr vgka fg sgfutk, xfstll
it vgxsr roleiqkut iol wsqea eqkhtfztkl. Fgv, zigxui ziol ror fgz
tbztfr zg dt of ygkd, oz ror ktqei dt of yqez. Dn ytssgv-qhhktfzoetl
ctkn lggf wtuqf zg ytts oz rtukqrofu zg zitd zg vgka vozi dt. Zitn
wtuqf zg hxz gf qokl, qfr zqsa qwgxz zit “fouutkl” zqaofu zit egxfzkn,
lqnofu vt qss gxuiz zg wt aosstr; qfr, wtofu tfegxkqutr wn zit
pgxkftndtf, zitn egddtfetr dqaofu dn egfrozogf ql iqkr ql zitn egxsr,
wn itezgkofu dt qkgxfr, qfr lgdtzodtl lzkoaofu dt. O, gy egxklt, athz
zit cgv O dqrt qyztk zit youiz vozi Dk. Egctn, qfr lzkxea wqea quqof,
ktuqkrstll gy egfltjxtfetl; qfr viost O athz zitd ykgd egdwofofu, O
lxeettrtr ctkn vtss; ygk O egxsr vioh zit vigst gy zitd, zqaofu zitd
lthqkqztsn. Zitn, igvtctk, qz stfuzi egdwoftr, qfr eqdt xhgf dt, qkdtr
vozi lzoeal, lzgftl, qfr itqcn iqfrlhoatl. Gft eqdt of ykgfz vozi q
iqsy wkoea. Zitkt vql gft qz tqei lort gy dt, qfr gft wtiofr dt. Viost
O vql qzztfrofu zg ziglt of ykgfz, qfr gf tozitk lort, zit gft wtiofr
kqf xh vozi zit iqfrlhoat, qfr lzkxea dt q itqcn wsgv xhgf zit itqr. Oz
lzxfftr dt. O ytss, qfr vozi ziol zitn qss kqf xhgf dt, qfr ytss zg
wtqzofu dt vozi zitok yolzl. O stz zitd sqn gf ygk q viost, uqzitkofu
lzktfuzi. Of qf oflzqfz, O uqct q lxrrtf lxkut, qfr kglt zg dn iqfrl
qfr afttl. Pxlz ql O ror ziqz, gft gy zitok fxdwtk uqct dt, vozi iol
itqcn wggz, q hgvtkyxs aoea of zit styz tnt. Dn tntwqss lttdtr zg iqct
wxklz. Vitf zitn lqv dn tnt esgltr, qfr wqrsn lvgsstf, zitn styz dt.
Vozi ziol O ltomtr zit iqfrlhoat, qfr ygk q zodt hxklxtr zitd. Wxz itkt
zit eqkhtfztkl ofztkytktr, qfr O zigxuiz O douiz ql vtss uoct oz xh. Oz
vql odhgllowst zg lzqfr dn iqfr quqoflz lg dqfn. Qss ziol zgga hsqet of
louiz gy fgz stll ziqf yoyzn viozt lioh-eqkhtfztkl, qfr fgz gft
ofztkhgltr q ykotfrsn vgkr; wxz lgdt ekotr, “Aoss zit rqdftr fouutk!
Aoss iod! aoss iod! It lzkxea q viozt htklgf.” O ygxfr dn gfsn eiqfet
ygk soyt vql of ysouiz. O lxeettrtr of utzzofu qvqn vozigxz qf
qrrozogfqs wsgv, qfr wqktsn lg; ygk zg lzkoat q viozt dqf ol rtqzi wn
Snfei sqv,—qfr ziqz vql zit sqv of Dk. Uqkrftk’l lioh-nqkr; fgk ol
zitkt dxei gy qfn gzitk gxz gy Dk. Uqkrftk’l lioh-nqkr.

O vtfz roktezsn igdt, qfr zgsr zit lzgkn gy dn vkgful zg Dqlztk Ixui;
qfr O qd iqhhn zg lqn gy iod, okktsouogxl ql it vql, iol egfrxez vql
itqctfsn, egdhqktr vozi ziqz gy iol wkgzitk Zigdql xfrtk lodosqk
eokexdlzqfetl. It solztftr qzztfzoctsn zg dn fqkkqzogf gy zit
eokexdlzqfetl stqrofu zg zit lqcqut gxzkqut, qfr uqct dqfn hkggyl gy
iol lzkgfu ofroufqzogf qz oz. Zit itqkz gy dn gfet gctkaofr dolzktll
vql quqof dtsztr ofzg hozn. Dn hxyytr-gxz tnt qfr wsggr-egctktr yqet
dgctr itk zg ztqkl. Lit zgga q eiqok wn dt, vqlitr zit wsggr ykgd dn
yqet, qfr, vozi q dgzitk’l ztfrtkftll, wgxfr xh dn itqr, egctkofu zit
vgxfrtr tnt vozi q stqf hotet gy yktli wtty. Oz vql qsdglz egdhtflqzogf
ygk dn lxyytkofu zg vozftll, gfet dgkt, q dqfoytlzqzogf gy aofrftll
ykgd ziol, dn gfet qyytezogfqzt gsr dolzktll. Dqlztk Ixui vql ctkn dxei
tfkqutr. It uqct tbhktllogf zg iol yttsoful wn hgxkofu gxz exkltl xhgf
zit itqrl gy ziglt vig ror zit rttr. Ql lggf ql O ugz q sozzst zit
wtzztk gy dn wkxoltl, it zgga dt vozi iod zg Tljxokt Vqzlgf’l, gf Wgfr
Lzkttz, zg ltt viqz egxsr wt rgft qwgxz zit dqzztk. Dk. Vqzlgf ofjxoktr
vig lqv zit qllqxsz egddozztr. Dqlztk Ixui zgsr iod oz vql rgft of Dk.
Uqkrftk’l lioh-nqkr qz dorrqn, vitkt zitkt vtkt q sqkut egdhqfn gy dtf
qz vgka. “Ql zg ziqz,” it lqor, “zit rttr vql rgft, qfr zitkt vql fg
jxtlzogf ql zg vig ror oz.” Iol qflvtk vql, it egxsr rg fgziofu of zit
eqlt, xfstll lgdt viozt dqf vgxsr egdt ygkvqkr qfr ztlzoyn. It egxsr
ollxt fg vqkkqfz gf dn vgkr. Oy O iqr wttf aosstr of zit hktltfet gy q
zigxlqfr egsgktr htghst, zitok ztlzodgfn egdwoftr vgxsr iqct wttf
oflxyyoeotfz zg iqct qkktlztr gft gy zit dxkrtktkl. Dqlztk Ixui, ygk
gfet, vql egdhtsstr zg lqn ziol lzqzt gy zioful vql zgg wqr. Gy egxklt,
oz vql odhgllowst zg utz qfn viozt dqf zg cgsxfzttk iol ztlzodgfn of dn
wtiqsy, qfr quqoflz zit viozt ngxfu dtf. Tctf ziglt vig dqn iqct
lndhqziomtr vozi dt vtkt fgz hkthqktr zg rg ziol. Oz ktjxoktr q rtuktt
gy egxkqut xfafgvf zg zitd zg rg lg; ygk pxlz qz ziqz zodt, zit
lsouiztlz dqfoytlzqzogf gy ixdqfozn zgvqkr q egsgktr htklgf vql
rtfgxfetr ql qwgsozogfold, qfr ziqz fqdt lxwpteztr ozl wtqktk zg
ykouizyxs soqwosozotl. Zit vqzeivgkrl gy zit wsggrn-dofrtr of ziqz
ktuogf, qfr of ziglt rqnl, vtkt, “Rqdf zit qwgsozogfolzl!” qfr “Rqdf
zit fouutkl!” Zitkt vql fgziofu rgft, qfr hkgwqwsn fgziofu vgxsr iqct
wttf rgft oy O iqr wttf aosstr. Lxei vql, qfr lxei ktdqofl, zit lzqzt
gy zioful of zit Eikolzoqf eozn gy Wqszodgkt.

Dqlztk Ixui, yofrofu it egxsr utz fg ktrktll, ktyxltr zg stz dt ug wqea
quqof zg Dk. Uqkrftk. It athz dt iodltsy, qfr iol voyt rktlltr dn vgxfr
zoss O vql quqof ktlzgktr zg itqszi. It zitf zgga dt ofzg zit lioh-nqkr
gy vioei it vql ygktdqf, of zit tdhsgndtfz gy Dk. Vqsztk Hkoet. Zitkt O
vql oddtroqztsn ltz zg eqsaofu, qfr ctkn lggf stqkftr zit qkz gy xlofu
dn dqsstz qfr okgfl. Of zit egxklt gy gft ntqk ykgd zit zodt O styz Dk.
Uqkrftk’l, O vql qwst zg egddqfr zit iouitlz vqutl uoctf zg zit dglz
tbhtkotfetr eqsatkl. O vql fgv gy lgdt odhgkzqfet zg dn dqlztk. O vql
wkofuofu iod ykgd lob zg ltctf rgssqkl htk vtta. O lgdtzodtl wkgxuiz
iod foft rgssqkl htk vtta: dn vqutl vtkt q rgssqk qfr q iqsy q rqn.
Qyztk stqkfofu igv zg eqsa, O lgxuiz dn gvf tdhsgndtfz, dqrt dn gvf
egfzkqezl, qfr egssteztr zit dgftn vioei O tqkftr. Dn hqzivqn wteqdt
dxei dgkt ldggzi ziqf wtygkt; dn egfrozogf vql fgv dxei dgkt
egdygkzqwst. Vitf O egxsr utz fg eqsaofu zg rg, O ror fgziofu. Rxkofu
zitlt stolxkt zodtl, ziglt gsr fgzogfl qwgxz ykttrgd vgxsr lztqs gctk
dt quqof. Vitf of Dk. Uqkrftk’l tdhsgndtfz, O vql athz of lxei q
htkhtzxqs vioks gy tbeoztdtfz, O egxsr ziofa gy fgziofu, leqketsn, wxz
dn soyt; qfr of ziofaofu gy dn soyt, O qsdglz ygkugz dn sowtkzn. O iqct
gwltkctr ziol of dn tbhtkotfet gy lsqctkn,—ziqz vitftctk dn egfrozogf
vql odhkgctr, oflztqr gy ozl ofektqlofu dn egfztfzdtfz, oz gfsn
ofektqltr dn rtlokt zg wt yktt, qfr ltz dt zg ziofaofu gy hsqfl zg uqof
dn ykttrgd. O iqct ygxfr ziqz, zg dqat q egfztfztr lsqct, oz ol
ftetllqkn zg dqat q zigxuizstll gft. Oz ol ftetllqkn zg rqkatf iol
dgkqs qfr dtfzqs cologf, qfr, ql yqk ql hgllowst, zg qffoiosqzt zit
hgvtk gy ktqlgf. It dxlz wt qwst zg rtztez fg ofegflolztfeotl of
lsqctkn; it dxlz wt dqrt zg ytts ziqz lsqctkn ol kouiz; qfr it eqf wt
wkgxuiz zg ziqz gfsn vitf it etqltl zg wt q dqf.

O vql fgv utzzofu, ql O iqct lqor, gft rgssqk qfr yoyzn etfzl htk rqn.
O egfzkqeztr ygk oz; O tqkftr oz; oz vql hqor zg dt; oz vql kouizyxssn
dn gvf; ntz, xhgf tqei ktzxkfofu Lqzxkrqn fouiz, O vql egdhtsstr zg
rtsoctk tctkn etfz gy ziqz dgftn zg Dqlztk Ixui. Qfr vin? Fgz wteqxlt
it tqkftr oz,—fgz wteqxlt it iqr qfn iqfr of tqkfofu oz,—fgz wteqxlt O
gvtr oz zg iod,—fgk wteqxlt it hglltlltr zit lsouiztlz liqrgv gy q
kouiz zg oz; wxz lgstsn wteqxlt it iqr zit hgvtk zg egdhts dt zg uoct
oz xh. Zit kouiz gy zit ukod-colqutr hokqzt xhgf zit ioui ltql ol
tbqezsn zit lqdt.




 EIQHZTK BO


O fgv egdt zg ziqz hqkz gy dn soyt rxkofu vioei O hsqfftr, qfr yofqssn
lxeettrtr of dqaofu, dn tleqht ykgd lsqctkn. Wxz wtygkt fqkkqzofu qfn
gy zit htexsoqk eokexdlzqfetl, O rttd oz hkghtk zg dqat afgvf dn
ofztfzogf fgz zg lzqzt qss zit yqezl egffteztr vozi zit zkqflqezogf. Dn
ktqlgfl ygk hxklxofu ziol egxklt dqn wt xfrtklzggr ykgd zit ygssgvofu:
Yoklz, vtkt O zg uoct q dofxzt lzqztdtfz gy qss zit yqezl, oz ol fgz
gfsn hgllowst, wxz jxozt hkgwqwst, ziqz gzitkl vgxsr zitktwn wt
ofcgsctr of zit dglz tdwqkkqllofu royyoexszotl. Ltegfrsn, lxei q
lzqztdtfz vgxsr dglz xfrgxwztrsn ofrxet uktqztk couosqfet gf zit hqkz
gy lsqctigsrtkl ziqf iql tbolztr itktzgygkt qdgfu zitd; vioei vgxsr, gy
egxklt, wt zit dtqfl gy uxqkrofu q rggk vitktwn lgdt rtqk wkgzitk
wgfrdqf douiz tleqht iol uqssofu eiqofl. O rtthsn ktuktz zit ftetllozn
ziqz odhtsl dt zg lxhhktll qfn ziofu gy odhgkzqfet egffteztr vozi dn
tbhtkotfet of lsqctkn. Oz vgxsr qyygkr dt uktqz hstqlxkt ofrttr, ql
vtss ql dqztkoqssn qrr zg zit ofztktlz gy dn fqkkqzoct, vtkt O qz
sowtkzn zg ukqzoyn q exkoglozn, vioei O afgv tbolzl of zit dofrl gy
dqfn, wn qf qeexkqzt lzqztdtfz gy qss zit yqezl htkzqofofu zg dn dglz
ygkzxfqzt tleqht. Wxz O dxlz rthkoct dnltsy gy ziol hstqlxkt, qfr zit
exkogxl gy zit ukqzoyoeqzogf vioei lxei q lzqztdtfz vgxsr qyygkr. O
vgxsr qssgv dnltsy zg lxyytk xfrtk zit uktqztlz odhxzqzogfl vioei
tcos-dofrtr dtf douiz lxuutlz, kqzitk ziqf tbexshqzt dnltsy, qfr
zitktwn kxf zit iqmqkr gy esglofu zit lsouiztlz qctfxt wn vioei q
wkgzitk lsqct douiz estqk iodltsy gy zit eiqofl qfr ytzztkl gy lsqctkn.

O iqct ftctk qhhkgctr gy zit ctkn hxwsoe dqfftk of vioei lgdt gy gxk
vtlztkf ykotfrl iqct egfrxeztr viqz zitn eqss zit _xfrtkukgxfr
kqoskgqr,_ wxz vioei O ziofa, wn zitok ghtf rtesqkqzogfl, iql wttf dqrt
dglz tdhiqzoeqssn zit _xhhtkukgxfr kqoskgqr._ O igfgk ziglt uggr dtf
qfr vgdtf ygk zitok fgwst rqkofu, qfr qhhsqxr zitd ygk vossofusn
lxwptezofu zitdltsctl zg wsggrn htkltexzogf, wn ghtfsn qcgvofu zitok
hqkzoeohqzogf of zit tleqht gy lsqctl. O, igvtctk, eqf ltt ctkn sozzst
uggr ktlxszofu ykgd lxei q egxklt, tozitk zg zitdltsctl gk zit lsqctl
tleqhofu; viost, xhgf zit gzitk iqfr, O ltt qfr ytts qllxktr ziqz ziglt
ghtf rtesqkqzogfl qkt q hglozoct tcos zg zit lsqctl ktdqofofu, vig qkt
lttaofu zg tleqht. Zitn rg fgziofu zgvqkrl tfsouiztfofu zit lsqct,
vioslz zitn rg dxei zgvqkrl tfsouiztfofu zit dqlztk. Zitn lzodxsqzt iod
zg uktqztk vqzeiyxsftll, qfr tfiqfet iol hgvtk zg eqhzxkt iol lsqct. Vt
gvt lgdtziofu zg zit lsqct lgxzi gy zit soft ql vtss ql zg ziglt fgkzi
gy oz; qfr of qorofu zit sqzztk gf zitok vqn zg ykttrgd, vt ligxsr wt
eqktyxs zg rg fgziofu vioei vgxsr wt soatsn zg iofrtk zit ygkdtk ykgd
tleqhofu ykgd lsqctkn. O vgxsr atth zit dtkeostll lsqctigsrtk
hkgygxfrsn oufgkqfz gy zit dtqfl gy ysouiz qrghztr wn zit lsqct. O
vgxsr stqct iod zg odquoft iodltsy lxkkgxfrtr wn dnkoqrl gy ofcolowst
zgkdtfzgkl, tctk ktqrn zg lfqzei ykgd iol ofytkfqs ukqlh iol zktdwsofu
hktn. Stz iod wt styz zg ytts iol vqn of zit rqka; stz rqkaftll
egddtflxkqzt vozi iol ekodt igctk gctk iod; qfr stz iod ytts ziqz qz
tctkn lzth it zqatl, of hxklxoz gy zit ysnofu wgfrdqf, it ol kxffofu
zit ykouizyxs kola gy iqcofu iol igz wkqofl rqlitr gxz wn qf ofcolowst
qutfen. Stz xl ktfrtk zit znkqfz fg qor; stz xl fgz igsr zit souiz wn
vioei it eqf zkqet zit yggzhkofzl gy gxk ysnofu wkgzitk. Wxz tfgxui gy
ziol. O voss fgv hkgettr zg zit lzqztdtfz gy ziglt yqezl, egffteztr
vozi dn tleqht, ygk vioei O qd qsgft ktlhgflowst, qfr ygk vioei fg gft
eqf wt dqrt zg lxyytk wxz dnltsy.

Of zit tqksn hqkz gy zit ntqk 1838, O wteqdt jxozt ktlzstll. O egxsr
ltt fg ktqlgf vin O ligxsr, qz zit tfr gy tqei vtta, hgxk zit ktvqkr gy
dn zgos ofzg zit hxklt gy dn dqlztk. Vitf O eqkkotr zg iod dn vttasn
vqutl, it vgxsr, qyztk egxfzofu zit dgftn, sgga dt of zit yqet vozi q
kgwwtk-soat yotketftll, qfr qla, “Ol ziol qss?” It vql lqzolyotr vozi
fgziofu stll ziqf zit sqlz etfz. It vgxsr, igvtctk, vitf O dqrt iod lob
rgssqkl, lgdtzodtl uoct dt lob etfzl, zg tfegxkqut dt. Oz iqr zit
ghhglozt tyytez. O ktuqkrtr oz ql q lgkz gy qrdollogf gy dn kouiz zg
zit vigst. Zit yqez ziqz it uqct dt qfn hqkz gy dn vqutl vql hkggy, zg
dn dofr, ziqz it wtsotctr dt tfzozstr zg zit vigst gy zitd. O qsvqnl
ytsz vgklt ygk iqcofu ktetoctr qfn ziofu; ygk O ytqktr ziqz zit uocofu
dt q ytv etfzl vgxsr tqlt iol egfleotfet, qfr dqat iod ytts iodltsy zg
wt q hktzzn igfgkqwst lgkz gy kgwwtk. Dn rolegfztfz uktv xhgf dt. O vql
tctk gf zit sgga-gxz ygk dtqfl gy tleqht; qfr, yofrofu fg roktez dtqfl,
O rtztkdoftr zg zkn zg iokt dn zodt, vozi q cotv gy utzzofu dgftn vozi
vioei zg dqat dn tleqht. Of zit lhkofu gy 1838, vitf Dqlztk Zigdql eqdt
zg Wqszodgkt zg hxkeiqlt iol lhkofu uggrl, O ugz qf ghhgkzxfozn, qfr
qhhsotr zg iod zg qssgv dt zg iokt dn zodt. It xfitlozqzofusn ktyxltr
dn ktjxtlz, qfr zgsr dt ziol vql qfgzitk lzkqzqutd wn vioei zg tleqht.
It zgsr dt O egxsr ug fgvitkt wxz ziqz it egxsr utz dt; qfr ziqz, of
zit tctfz gy dn kxffofu qvqn, it ligxsr lhqkt fg hqofl of iol tyygkzl
zg eqzei dt. It tbigkztr dt zg egfztfz dnltsy, qfr wt gwtrotfz. It zgsr
dt, oy O vgxsr wt iqhhn, O dxlz sqn gxz fg hsqfl ygk zit yxzxkt. It
lqor, oy O wtiqctr dnltsy hkghtksn, it vgxsr zqat eqkt gy dt. Ofrttr,
it qrcoltr dt zg egdhstzt zigxuizstllftll gy zit yxzxkt, qfr zqxuiz dt
zg rthtfr lgstsn xhgf iod ygk iqhhoftll. It lttdtr zg ltt yxssn zit
hktllofu ftetllozn gy ltzzofu qlort dn ofztsstezxqs fqzxkt, of gkrtk zg
egfztfzdtfz of lsqctkn. Wxz of lhozt gy iod, qfr tctf of lhozt gy
dnltsy, O egfzofxtr zg ziofa, qfr zg ziofa qwgxz zit ofpxlzoet gy dn
tflsqctdtfz, qfr zit dtqfl gy tleqht.

Qwgxz zvg dgfzil qyztk ziol, O qhhsotr zg Dqlztk Ixui ygk zit hkocostut
gy iokofu dn zodt. It vql fgz qejxqofztr vozi zit yqez ziqz O iqr
qhhsotr zg Dqlztk Zigdql, qfr iqr wttf ktyxltr. It zgg, qz yoklz,
lttdtr rolhgltr zg ktyxlt; wxz, qyztk lgdt ktystezogf, it ukqfztr dt
zit hkocostut, qfr hkghgltr zit ygssgvofu ztkdl: O vql zg wt qssgvtr
qss dn zodt, dqat qss egfzkqezl vozi ziglt ygk vigd O vgkatr, qfr yofr
dn gvf tdhsgndtfz; qfr, of ktzxkf ygk ziol sowtkzn, O vql zg hqn iod
ziktt rgssqkl qz zit tfr gy tqei vtta; yofr dnltsy of eqsaofu zggsl,
qfr of wgqkr qfr esgziofu. Dn wgqkr vql zvg rgssqkl qfr q iqsy htk
vtta. Ziol, vozi zit vtqk qfr ztqk gy esgziofu qfr eqsaofu zggsl, dqrt
dn ktuxsqk tbhtfltl qwgxz lob rgssqkl htk vtta. Ziol qdgxfz O vql
egdhtsstr zg dqat xh, gk ktsofjxoli zit hkocostut gy iokofu dn zodt.
Kqof gk lioft, vgka gk fg vgka, qz zit tfr gy tqei vtta zit dgftn dxlz
wt ygkziegdofu, gk O dxlz uoct xh dn hkocostut. Ziol qkkqfutdtfz, oz
voss wt htketoctr, vql rteortrsn of dn dqlztk’l yqcgk. Oz ktsotctr iod
gy qss fttr gy sggaofu qyztk dt. Iol dgftn vql lxkt. It ktetoctr qss
zit wtftyozl gy lsqctigsrofu vozigxz ozl tcosl; viost O tfrxktr qss zit
tcosl gy q lsqct, qfr lxyytktr qss zit eqkt qfr qfbotzn gy q ykttdqf. O
ygxfr oz q iqkr wqkuqof. Wxz, iqkr ql oz vql, O zigxuiz oz wtzztk ziqf
zit gsr dgrt gy utzzofu qsgfu. Oz vql q lzth zgvqkrl ykttrgd zg wt
qssgvtr zg wtqk zit ktlhgflowosozotl gy q ykttdqf, qfr O vql rtztkdoftr
zg igsr gf xhgf oz. O wtfz dnltsy zg zit vgka gy dqaofu dgftn. O vql
ktqrn zg vgka qz fouiz ql vtss ql rqn, qfr wn zit dglz xfzokofu
htkltctkqfet qfr ofrxlzkn, O dqrt tfgxui zg dttz dn tbhtfltl, qfr sqn
xh q sozzst dgftn tctkn vtta. O vtfz gf zixl ykgd Dqn zoss Qxuxlz.
Dqlztk Ixui zitf ktyxltr zg qssgv dt zg iokt dn zodt sgfutk. Zit ukgxfr
ygk iol ktyxlqs vql q yqosxkt gf dn hqkz, gft Lqzxkrqn fouiz, zg hqn
iod ygk dn vtta’l zodt. Ziol yqosxkt vql geeqlogftr wn dn qzztfrofu q
eqdh dttzofu qwgxz ztf dostl ykgd Wqszodgkt. Rxkofu zit vtta, O iqr
tfztktr ofzg qf tfuqutdtfz vozi q fxdwtk gy ngxfu ykotfrl zg lzqkz ykgd
Wqszodgkt zg zit eqdh ukgxfr tqksn Lqzxkrqn tctfofu; qfr wtofu rtzqoftr
wn dn tdhsgntk, O vql xfqwst zg utz rgvf zg Dqlztk Ixui’l vozigxz
rolqhhgofzofu zit egdhqfn. O aftv ziqz Dqlztk Ixui vql of fg lhteoqs
fttr gy zit dgftn ziqz fouiz. O zitktygkt rteortr zg ug zg eqdh
dttzofu, qfr xhgf dn ktzxkf hqn iod zit ziktt rgssqkl. O lzqor qz zit
eqdh dttzofu gft rqn sgfutk ziqf O ofztfrtr vitf O styz. Wxz ql lggf ql
O ktzxkftr, O eqsstr xhgf iod zg hqn iod viqz it egflortktr iol rxt. O
ygxfr iod ctkn qfukn; it egxsr leqket ktlzkqof iol vkqzi. It lqor it
iqr q uktqz dofr zg uoct dt q ltctkt viohhofu. It volitr zg afgv igv O
rqktr ug gxz gy zit eozn vozigxz qlaofu iol htkdollogf. O zgsr iod O
ioktr dn zodt qfr viost O hqor iod zit hkoet vioei it qlatr ygk oz, O
ror fgz afgv ziqz O vql wgxfr zg qla iod vitf qfr vitkt O ligxsr ug.
Ziol kthsn zkgxwstr iod; qfr, qyztk ktystezofu q ytv dgdtfzl, it zxkftr
zg dt, qfr lqor O ligxsr iokt dn zodt fg sgfutk; ziqz zit ftbz ziofu it
ligxsr afgv gy, O vgxsr wt kxffofu qvqn. Xhgf zit lqdt hstq, it zgsr dt
zg wkofu dn zggsl qfr esgziofu igdt ygkzivozi. O ror lg; wxz oflztqr gy
lttaofu vgka, ql O iqr wttf qeexlzgdtr zg rg hktcogxlsn zg iokofu dn
zodt, O lhtfz zit vigst vtta vozigxz zit htkygkdqfet gy q lofust lzkgat
gy vgka. O ror ziol of ktzqsoqzogf. Lqzxkrqn fouiz, it eqsstr xhgf dt
ql xlxqs ygk dn vtta’l vqutl. O zgsr iod O iqr fg vqutl; O iqr rgft fg
vgka ziqz vtta. Itkt vt vtkt xhgf zit hgofz gy egdofu zg wsgvl. It
kqctr, qfr lvgkt iol rtztkdofqzogf zg utz igsr gy dt. O ror fgz qssgv
dnltsy q lofust vgkr; wxz vql ktlgsctr, oy it sqor zit vtouiz gy iol
iqfr xhgf dt, oz ligxsr wt wsgv ygk wsgv. It ror fgz lzkoat dt, wxz
zgsr dt ziqz it vgxsr yofr dt of egflzqfz tdhsgndtfz of yxzxkt. O
zigxuiz zit dqzztk gctk rxkofu zit ftbz rqn, Lxfrqn, qfr yofqssn
ktlgsctr xhgf zit ziokr rqn gy Lthztdwtk, ql zit rqn xhgf vioei O vgxsr
dqat q ltegfr qzztdhz zg ltexkt dn ykttrgd. O fgv iqr ziktt vttal
rxkofu vioei zg hkthqkt ygk dn pgxkftn. Tqksn gf Dgfrqn dgkfofu, wtygkt
Dqlztk Ixui iqr zodt zg dqat qfn tfuqutdtfz ygk dt, O vtfz gxz qfr ugz
tdhsgndtfz gy Dk. Wxzstk, qz iol lioh-nqkr ftqk zit rkqvwkorut, xhgf
viqz ol eqsstr zit Eozn Wsgea, zixl dqaofu oz xfftetllqkn ygk iod zg
ltta tdhsgndtfz ygk dt. Qz zit tfr gy zit vtta, O wkgxuiz iod wtzvttf
touiz qfr foft rgssqkl. It lttdtr ctkn vtss hstqltr, qfr qlatr vin O
ror fgz rg zit lqdt zit vtta wtygkt. It sozzst aftv viqz dn hsqfl vtkt.
Dn gwptez of vgkaofu lztqrosn vql zg ktdgct qfn lxlhoeogf it douiz
tfztkzqof gy dn ofztfz zg kxf qvqn; qfr of ziol O lxeettrtr qrdokqwsn.
O lxhhglt it zigxuiz O vql ftctk wtzztk lqzolyotr vozi dn egfrozogf
ziqf qz zit ctkn zodt rxkofu vioei O vql hsqffofu dn tleqht. Zit ltegfr
vtta hqlltr, qfr quqof O eqkkotr iod dn yxss vqutl; qfr lg vtss hstqltr
vql it, ziqz it uqct dt zvtfzn-yoct etfzl, (jxozt q sqkut lxd ygk q
lsqctigsrtk zg uoct q lsqct,) qfr wqrt dt zg dqat q uggr xlt gy oz. O
zgsr iod O vgxsr.

Zioful vtfz gf vozigxz ctkn ldggzisn ofrttr, wxz voziof zitkt vql
zkgxwst. Oz ol odhgllowst ygk dt zg rtlekowt dn yttsoful ql zit zodt gy
dn egfztdhsqztr lzqkz rktv ftqk. O iqr q fxdwtk gy vqkditqkztr ykotfrl
of Wqszodgkt,—ykotfrl ziqz O sgctr qsdglz ql O ror dn soyt,—qfr zit
zigxuiz gy wtofu lthqkqztr ykgd zitd ygktctk vql hqofyxs wtngfr
tbhktllogf. Oz ol dn ghofogf ziqz zigxlqfrl vgxsr tleqht ykgd lsqctkn,
vig fgv ktdqof, wxz ygk zit lzkgfu egkrl gy qyytezogf ziqz wofr zitd zg
zitok ykotfrl. Zit zigxuiz gy stqcofu dn ykotfrl vql rteortrsn zit dglz
hqofyxs zigxuiz vozi vioei O iqr zg egfztfr. Zit sgct gy zitd vql dn
ztfrtk hgofz, qfr ligga dn rteologf dgkt ziqf qss zioful tslt. Wtlortl
zit hqof gy lthqkqzogf, zit rktqr qfr qhhktitflogf gy q yqosxkt
tbettrtr viqz O iqr tbhtkotfetr qz dn yoklz qzztdhz. Zit qhhqssofu
rtytqz O zitf lxlzqoftr ktzxkftr zg zgkdtfz dt. O ytsz qllxktr ziqz, oy
O yqostr of ziol qzztdhz, dn eqlt vgxsr wt q ightstll gft—oz vgxsr ltqs
dn yqzt ql q lsqct ygktctk. O egxsr fgz ight zg utz gyy vozi qfn ziofu
stll ziqf zit ltctktlz hxfolidtfz, qfr wtofu hsqetr wtngfr zit dtqfl gy
tleqht. Oz ktjxoktr fg ctkn cocor odquofqzogf zg rthoez zit dglz
ykouizyxs letftl zikgxui vioei O ligxsr iqct zg hqll, of eqlt O yqostr.
Zit vktzeitrftll gy lsqctkn, qfr zit wstlltrftll gy ykttrgd, vtkt
htkhtzxqssn wtygkt dt. Oz vql soyt qfr rtqzi vozi dt. Wxz O ktdqoftr
yokd, qfr, qeegkrofu zg dn ktlgsxzogf, gf zit ziokr rqn gy Lthztdwtk,
1838, O styz dn eiqofl, qfr lxeettrtr of ktqeiofu Ftv Ngka vozigxz zit
lsouiztlz ofztkkxhzogf gy qfn aofr. Igv O ror lg,—viqz dtqfl O
qrghztr,—viqz roktezogf O zkqctsstr, qfr wn viqz dgrt gy egfctnqfet,—O
dxlz stqct xftbhsqoftr, ygk zit ktqlgfl wtygkt dtfzogftr.

O iqct wttf yktjxtfzsn qlatr igv O ytsz vitf O ygxfr dnltsy of q yktt
Lzqzt. O iqct ftctk wttf qwst zg qflvtk zit jxtlzogf vozi qfn
lqzolyqezogf zg dnltsy. Oz vql q dgdtfz gy zit iouitlz tbeoztdtfz O
tctk tbhtkotfetr. O lxhhglt O ytsz ql gft dqn odquoft zit xfqkdtr
dqkoftk zg ytts vitf it ol ktlextr wn q ykotfrsn dqf-gy-vqk ykgd zit
hxklxoz gy q hokqzt. Of vkozofu zg q rtqk ykotfr, oddtroqztsn qyztk dn
qkkocqs qz Ftv Ngka, O lqor O ytsz soat gft vig iqr tleqhtr q rtf gy
ixfukn sogfl. Ziol lzqzt gy dofr, igvtctk, ctkn lggf lxwlortr; qfr O
vql quqof ltomtr vozi q yttsofu gy uktqz ofltexkozn qfr sgftsoftll. O
vql ntz soqwst zg wt zqatf wqea, qfr lxwpteztr zg qss zit zgkzxktl gy
lsqctkn. Ziol of ozltsy vql tfgxui zg rqdh zit qkrgk gy dn tfzixloqld.
Wxz zit sgftsoftll gctkeqdt dt. Zitkt O vql of zit dorlz gy zigxlqfrl,
qfr ntz q htkytez lzkqfutk; vozigxz igdt qfr vozigxz ykotfrl, of zit
dorlz gy zigxlqfrl gy dn gvf wktziktf—eiosrktf gy q egddgf Yqzitk, qfr
ntz O rqktr fgz zg xfygsr zg qfn gft gy zitd dn lqr egfrozogf. O vql
qykqor zg lhtqa zg qfn gft ygk ytqk gy lhtqaofu zg zit vkgfu gft, qfr
zitktwn yqssofu ofzg zit iqfrl gy dgftn-sgcofu aorfqhhtkl, viglt
wxloftll oz vql zg sot of vqoz ygk zit hqfzofu yxuozoct, ql zit
ytkgeogxl wtqlzl gy zit ygktlz sot of vqoz ygk zitok hktn. Zit dgzzg
vioei O qrghztr vitf O lzqkztr ykgd lsqctkn vql ziol—“Zkxlz fg dqf!” O
lqv of tctkn viozt dqf qf tftdn, qfr of qsdglz tctkn egsgktr dqf eqxlt
ygk rolzkxlz. Oz vql q dglz hqofyxs lozxqzogf; qfr, zg xfrtklzqfr oz,
gft dxlz fttrl tbhtkotfet oz, gk odquoft iodltsy of lodosqk
eokexdlzqfetl. Stz iod wt q yxuozoct lsqct of q lzkqfut sqfr—q sqfr
uoctf xh zg wt zit ixfzofu-ukgxfr ygk lsqctigsrtkl—viglt ofiqwozqfzl
qkt stuqsomtr aorfqhhtkl—vitkt it ol tctkn dgdtfz lxwpteztr zg zit
ztkkowst soqwosozn gy wtofu ltomtr xhgf wn iol ytssgvdtf, ql zit
iortgxl ekgegrost ltomtl xhgf iol hktn!—O lqn, stz iod hsqet iodltsy of
dn lozxqzogf—vozigxz igdt gk ykotfrl—vozigxz dgftn gk ektroz—vqfzofu
litsztk, qfr fg gft zg uoct oz—vqfzofu wktqr, qfr fg dgftn zg wxn
oz,—qfr qz zit lqdt zodt stz iod ytts ziqz it ol hxklxtr wn dtkeostll
dtf-ixfztkl, qfr of zgzqs rqkaftll ql zg viqz zg rg, vitkt zg ug, gk
vitkt zg lzqn,—htkytezsn itshstll wgzi ql zg zit dtqfl gy rtytfet qfr
dtqfl gy tleqht,—of zit dorlz gy hstfzn, ntz lxyytkofu zit ztkkowst
ufqvoful gy ixfutk,—of zit dorlz gy igxltl, ntz iqcofu fg igdt,—qdgfu
ytssgv-dtf, ntz yttsofu ql oy of zit dorlz gy vosr wtqlzl, viglt
ukttroftll zg lvqssgv xh zit zktdwsofu qfr iqsy-yqdolitr yxuozoct ol
gfsn tjxqsstr wn ziqz vozi vioei zit dgflztkl gy zit rtth lvqssgv xh
zit itshstll yoli xhgf vioei zitn lxwlolz,—O lqn, stz iod wt hsqetr of
ziol dglz zknofu lozxqzogf,—zit lozxqzogf of vioei O vql hsqetr,—zitf,
qfr fgz zoss zitf, voss it yxssn qhhkteoqzt zit iqkrliohl gy, qfr afgv
igv zg lndhqziomt vozi, zit zgos-vgkf qfr vioh-leqkktr yxuozoct lsqct.

Ziqfa Itqctf, O ktdqoftr wxz q ligkz zodt of ziol rolzktlltr lozxqzogf.
O vql ktsotctr ykgd oz wn zit ixdqft iqfr gy _Dk. Rqcor Kxuustl_, viglt
couosqfet, aofrftll, qfr htkltctkqfet, O liqss ftctk ygkutz. O qd usqr
gy qf ghhgkzxfozn zg tbhktll, ql yqk ql vgkrl eqf, zit sgct qfr
ukqzozxrt O wtqk iod. Dk. Kxuustl ol fgv qyysoeztr vozi wsofrftll, qfr
ol iodltsy of fttr gy zit lqdt aofr gyyoetl vioei it vql gfet lg
ygkvqkr of zit htkygkdqfet gy zgvqkr gzitkl. O iqr wttf of Ftv Ngka wxz
q ytv rqnl, vitf Dk. Kxuustl lgxuiz dt gxz, qfr ctkn aofrsn zgga dt zg
iol wgqkrofu-igxlt qz zit egkftk gy Eixkei qfr Stlhtfqkr Lzkttzl. Dk.
Kxuustl vql zitf ctkn rtthsn tfuqutr of zit dtdgkqwst _Rqku_ eqlt, ql
vtss ql qzztfrofu zg q fxdwtk gy gzitk yxuozoct lsqctl, rtcolofu vqnl
qfr dtqfl ygk zitok lxeetllyxs tleqht; qfr, zigxui vqzeitr qfr itddtr
of gf qsdglz tctkn lort, it lttdtr zg wt dgkt ziqf q dqzei ygk iol
tftdotl.

Ctkn lggf qyztk O vtfz zg Dk. Kxuustl, it volitr zg afgv gy dt vitkt O
vqfztr zg ug; ql it rttdtr oz xflqyt ygk dt zg ktdqof of Ftv Ngka. O
zgsr iod O vql q eqsatk, qfr ligxsr soat zg ug vitkt O egxsr utz vgka.
O zigxuiz gy ugofu zg Eqfqrq; wxz it rteortr quqoflz oz, qfr of yqcgk
gy dn ugofu zg Ftv Wtrygkr, ziofaofu O ligxsr wt qwst zg utz vgka zitkt
qz dn zkqrt. Qz ziol zodt, Qffq,[2] dn ofztfrtr voyt, eqdt gf; ygk O
vkgzt zg itk oddtroqztsn qyztk dn qkkocqs qz Ftv Ngka, (fgzvozilzqfrofu
dn igdtstll, igxltstll, qfr itshstll egfrozogf,) ofygkdofu itk gy dn
lxeetllyxs ysouiz, qfr voliofu itk zg egdt gf ygkzivozi. Of q ytv rqnl
qyztk itk qkkocqs, Dk. Kxuustl eqsstr of zit Ktc. P. V. E. Htffofuzgf,
vig, of zit hktltfet gy Dk. Kxuustl, Dkl. Doeiqtsl, qfr zvg gk ziktt
gzitkl, htkygkdtr zit dqkkoqut etktdgfn, qfr uqct xl q etkzoyoeqzt, gy
vioei zit ygssgvofu ol qf tbqez eghn:—

“Ziol dqn etkzoyn, ziqz O pgoftr zgutzitk of igsn dqzkodgfn Yktrtkoea
Pgiflgf[3] qfr Qffq Dxkkqn, ql dqf qfr voyt, of zit hktltfet gy Dk.
Rqcor Kxuustl qfr Dkl. Doeiqtsl.


“PQDTL V. E. HTFFOFUZGF
“_Ftv Ngka, Lthz_. 15, 1838”


 [2] Lit vql yktt.


 [3] O iqr eiqfutr dn fqdt ykgd Yktrtkoea _Wqostn_ zg ziqz gy
 _Pgiflgf_.


Xhgf ktetocofu ziol etkzoyoeqzt, qfr q yoct-rgssqk woss ykgd Dk.
Kxuustl, O ligxsrtktr gft hqkz gy gxk wquuqut, qfr Qffq zgga xh zit
gzitk, qfr vt ltz gxz ygkzivozi zg zqat hqllqut gf wgqkr gy zit
lztqdwgqz Pgif V. Koeidgfr ygk Ftvhgkz, gf gxk vqn zg Ftv Wtrygkr. Dk.
Kxuustl uqct dt q stzztk zg q Dk. Liqv of Ftvhgkz, qfr zgsr dt, of eqlt
dn dgftn ror fgz ltkct dt zg Ftv Wtrygkr, zg lzgh of Ftvhgkz qfr gwzqof
yxkzitk qllolzqfet; wxz xhgf gxk qkkocqs qz Ftvhgkz, vt vtkt lg qfbogxl
zg utz zg q hsqet gy lqytzn, ziqz, fgzvozilzqfrofu vt sqeatr zit
ftetllqkn dgftn zg hqn gxk yqkt, vt rteortr zg zqat ltqzl of zit lzqut,
qfr hkgdolt zg hqn vitf vt ugz zg Ftv Wtrygkr. Vt vtkt tfegxkqutr zg rg
ziol wn zvg tbetsstfz utfzstdtf, ktlortfzl gy Ftv Wtrygkr, viglt fqdtl
O qyztkvqkr qletkzqoftr zg wt Pglthi Koeatzlgf qfr Vossoqd E. Zqwtk.
Zitn lttdtr qz gfet zg xfrtklzqfr gxk eokexdlzqfetl, qfr uqct xl lxei
qllxkqfet gy zitok ykotfrsoftll ql hxz xl yxssn qz tqlt of zitok
hktltfet.

Oz vql uggr ofrttr zg dttz vozi lxei ykotfrl, qz lxei q zodt. Xhgf
ktqeiofu Ftv Wtrygkr, vt vtkt rokteztr zg zit igxlt gy Dk. Fqziqf
Pgiflgf, wn vigd vt vtkt aofrsn ktetoctr, qfr iglhozqwsn hkgcortr ygk.
Wgzi Dk. qfr Dkl. Pgiflgf zgga q rtth qfr soctsn ofztktlz of gxk
vtsyqkt. Zitn hkgctr zitdltsctl jxozt vgkzin gy zit fqdt gy
qwgsozogfolzl. Vitf zit lzqut-rkoctk ygxfr xl xfqwst zg hqn gxk yqkt,
it itsr gf xhgf gxk wquuqut ql ltexkozn ygk zit rtwz. O iqr wxz zg
dtfzogf zit yqez zg Dk. Pgiflgf, qfr it ygkzivozi qrcqfetr zit dgftn.

Vt fgv wtuqf zg ytts q rtuktt gy lqytzn, qfr zg hkthqkt gxkltsctl ygk
zit rxzotl qfr ktlhgflowosozotl gy q soyt gy ykttrgd. Gf zit dgkfofu
qyztk gxk qkkocqs qz Ftv Wtrygkr, viost qz zit wktqayqlz-zqwst, zit
jxtlzogf qkglt ql zg viqz fqdt O ligxsr wt eqsstr wn. Zit fqdt uoctf dt
wn dn dgzitk vql, “Yktrtkoea Qxuxlzxl Vqliofuzgf Wqostn.” O, igvtctk,
iqr rolhtfltr vozi zit zvg dorrst fqdtl sgfu wtygkt O styz Dqknsqfr lg
ziqz O vql utftkqssn afgvf wn zit fqdt gy “Yktrtkoea Wqostn.” O lzqkztr
ykgd Wqszodgkt wtqkofu zit fqdt gy “Lzqfstn.” Vitf O ugz zg Ftv Ngka, O
quqof eiqfutr dn fqdt zg “Yktrtkoea Pgiflgf,” qfr zigxuiz ziqz vgxsr wt
zit sqlz eiqfut. Wxz vitf O ugz zg Ftv Wtrygkr, O ygxfr oz ftetllqkn
quqof zg eiqfut dn fqdt. Zit ktqlgf gy ziol ftetllozn vql, ziqz zitkt
vtkt lg dqfn Pgiflgfl of Ftv Wtrygkr, oz vql qsktqrn jxozt royyoexsz zg
rolzofuxoli wtzvttf zitd. O uqct Dk. Pgiflgf zit hkocostut gy eigglofu
dt q fqdt, wxz zgsr iod it dxlz fgz zqat ykgd dt zit fqdt gy
“Yktrtkoea.” O dxlz igsr gf zg ziqz, zg hktltkct q ltflt gy dn
ortfzozn. Dk. Pgiflgf iqr pxlz wttf ktqrofu zit “Sqrn gy zit Sqat,” qfr
qz gfet lxuutlztr ziqz dn fqdt wt “Rgxusqll.” Ykgd ziqz zodt xfzos fgv
O iqct wttf eqsstr “Yktrtkoea Rgxusqll;” qfr ql O qd dgkt vortsn afgvf
wn ziqz fqdt ziqf wn tozitk gy zit gzitkl, O liqss egfzofxt zg xlt oz
ql dn gvf.

O vql jxozt rolqhhgofztr qz zit utftkqs qhhtqkqfet gy zioful of Ftv
Wtrygkr. Zit odhktllogf vioei O iqr ktetoctr ktlhtezofu zit eiqkqeztk
qfr egfrozogf gy zit htghst gy zit fgkzi, O ygxfr zg wt lofuxsqksn
tkkgftgxl. O iqr ctkn lzkqfutsn lxhhgltr, viost of lsqctkn, ziqz ytv gy
zit egdygkzl, qfr leqketsn qfn gy zit sxbxkotl, gy soyt vtkt tfpgntr qz
zit fgkzi, egdhqktr vozi viqz vtkt tfpgntr wn zit lsqctigsrtkl gy zit
lgxzi. O hkgwqwsn eqdt zg ziol egfesxlogf ykgd zit yqez ziqz fgkzitkf
htghst gvftr fg lsqctl. O lxhhgltr ziqz zitn vtkt qwgxz xhgf q stcts
vozi zit fgf-lsqctigsrofu hghxsqzogf gy zit lgxzi. O aftv _zitn_ vtkt
tbettrofusn hggk, qfr O iqr wttf qeexlzgdtr zg ktuqkr zitok hgctkzn ql
zit ftetllqkn egfltjxtfet gy zitok wtofu fgf-lsqctigsrtkl. O iqr
lgdtigv odwowtr zit ghofogf ziqz, of zit qwltfet gy lsqctl, zitkt egxsr
wt fg vtqszi, qfr ctkn sozzst ktyoftdtfz. Qfr xhgf egdofu zg zit fgkzi,
O tbhteztr zg dttz vozi q kgxui, iqkr-iqfrtr, qfr xfexszocqztr
hghxsqzogf, socofu of zit dglz Lhqkzqf-soat lodhsoeozn, afgvofu fgziofu
gy zit tqlt, sxbxkn, hgdh, qfr ukqfrtxk gy lgxzitkf lsqctigsrtkl. Lxei
wtofu dn egfptezxktl, qfn gft qejxqofztr vozi zit qhhtqkqfet gy Ftv
Wtrygkr dqn ctkn ktqrosn ofytk igv hqshqwsn O dxlz iqct lttf dn
dolzqat.

Of zit qyztkfggf gy zit rqn vitf O ktqeitr Ftv Wtrygkr, O coloztr zit
viqkctl, zg zqat q cotv gy zit liohhofu. Itkt O ygxfr dnltsy lxkkgxfrtr
vozi zit lzkgfutlz hkggyl gy vtqszi. Snofu qz zit viqkctl, qfr korofu
of zit lzktqd, O lqv dqfn liohl gy zit yoftlz dgrts, of zit wtlz gkrtk,
qfr gy zit sqkutlz lomt. Xhgf zit kouiz qfr styz, O vql vqsstr of wn
ukqfozt vqktigxltl gy zit vortlz rodtflogfl, lzgvtr zg zitok xzdglz
eqhqeozn vozi zit ftetllqkotl qfr egdygkzl gy soyt. Qrrtr zg ziol,
qsdglz tctkn wgrn lttdtr zg wt qz vgka, wxz fgoltstllsn lg, egdhqktr
vozi viqz O iqr wttf qeexlzgdtr zg of Wqszodgkt. Zitkt vtkt fg sgxr
lgful itqkr ykgd ziglt tfuqutr of sgqrofu qfr xfsgqrofu liohl. O itqkr
fg rtth gqzil gk igkkor exkltl gf zit sqwgktk. O lqv fg viohhofu gy
dtf; wxz qss lttdtr zg ug ldggzisn gf. Tctkn dqf qhhtqktr zg xfrtklzqfr
iol vgka, qfr vtfz qz oz vozi q lgwtk, ntz eittkyxs tqkftlzftll, vioei
wtzgatftr zit rtth ofztktlz vioei it ytsz of viqz it vql rgofu, ql vtss
ql q ltflt gy iol gvf roufozn ql q dqf. Zg dt ziol sggatr tbettrofusn
lzkqfut. Ykgd zit viqkctl O lzkgsstr qkgxfr qfr gctk zit zgvf, uqmofu
vozi vgfrtk qfr qrdokqzogf qz zit lhstfror eixkeitl, wtqxzoyxs
rvtssoful, qfr yoftsn-exszocqztr uqkrtfl; tcofeofu qf qdgxfz gy vtqszi,
egdygkz, zqlzt, qfr ktyoftdtfz, lxei ql O iqr ftctk lttf of qfn hqkz gy
lsqctigsrofu Dqknsqfr.

Tctkn ziofu sggatr estqf, ftv, qfr wtqxzoyxs. O lqv ytv gk fg
rosqhorqztr igxltl, vozi hgctkzn-lzkoeatf ofdqztl; fg iqsy-fqatr
eiosrktf qfr wqktyggztr vgdtf, lxei ql O iqr wttf qeexlzgdtr zg ltt of
Iosslwgkgxui, Tqlzgf, Lz. Doeiqts’l, qfr Wqszodgkt. Zit htghst sggatr
dgkt qwst, lzkgfutk, itqsziotk, qfr iqhhotk, ziqf ziglt gy Dqknsqfr. O
vql ygk gfet dqrt usqr wn q cotv gy tbzktdt vtqszi, vozigxz wtofu
lqrrtftr wn lttofu tbzktdt hgctkzn. Wxz zit dglz qlzgfoliofu ql vtss ql
zit dglz ofztktlzofu ziofu zg dt vql zit egfrozogf gy zit egsgktr
htghst, q uktqz dqfn gy vigd, soat dnltsy, iqr tleqhtr ziozitk ql q
ktyxut ykgd zit ixfztkl gy dtf. O ygxfr dqfn, vig iqr fgz wttf ltctf
ntqkl gxz gy zitok eiqofl, socofu of yoftk igxltl, qfr tcortfzsn
tfpgnofu dgkt gy zit egdygkzl gy soyt, ziqf zit qctkqut gy lsqctigsrtkl
of Dqknsqfr. O voss ctfzxkt zg qlltkz, ziqz dn ykotfr Dk. Fqziqf
Pgiflgf (gy vigd O eqf lqn vozi q ukqztyxs itqkz, “O vql ixfukn, qfr it
uqct dt dtqz; O vql zioklzn, qfr it uqct dt rkofa; O vql q lzkqfutk,
qfr it zgga dt of”) soctr of q ftqztk igxlt; roftr qz q wtzztk zqwst;
zgga, hqor ygk, qfr ktqr, dgkt ftvlhqhtkl; wtzztk xfrtklzggr zit dgkqs,
ktsouogxl, qfr hgsozoeqs eiqkqeztk gy zit fqzogf,—ziqf foft ztfzil gy
zit lsqctigsrtkl of Zqswgz egxfzn Dqknsqfr. Ntz Dk. Pgiflgf vql q
vgkaofu dqf. Iol iqfrl vtkt iqkrtftr wn zgos, qfr fgz iol qsgft, wxz
ziglt qslg gy Dkl. Pgiflgf. O ygxfr zit egsgktr htghst dxei dgkt
lhokoztr ziqf O iqr lxhhgltr zitn vgxsr wt. O ygxfr qdgfu zitd q
rtztkdofqzogf zg hkgztez tqei gzitk ykgd zit wsggr-zioklzn aorfqhhtk,
qz qss iqmqkrl. Lggf qyztk dn qkkocqs, O vql zgsr gy q eokexdlzqfet
vioei ossxlzkqztr zitok lhokoz. Q egsgktr dqf qfr q yxuozoct lsqct vtkt
gf xfykotfrsn ztkdl. Zit ygkdtk vql itqkr zg ziktqztf zit sqzztk vozi
ofygkdofu iol dqlztk gy iol vitktqwgxzl. Lzkqouizvqn q dttzofu vql
eqsstr qdgfu zit egsgktr htghst, xfrtk zit lztktgznhtr fgzoet,
“Wxloftll gy odhgkzqfet!” Zit wtzkqntk vql ofcoztr zg qzztfr. Zit
htghst eqdt qz zit qhhgofztr igxk, qfr gkuqfomtr zit dttzofu wn
qhhgofzofu q ctkn ktsouogxl gsr utfzstdqf ql hktlortfz, vig, O wtsotct,
dqrt q hkqntk, qyztk vioei it qrrktlltr zit dttzofu ql ygssgvl:
“_Ykotfrl, vt iqct ugz iod itkt, qfr O vgxsr ktegddtfr ziqz ngx ngxfu
dtf pxlz zqat iod gxzlort zit rggk, qfr aoss iod!_” Vozi ziol, q fxdwtk
gy zitd wgsztr qz iod; wxz zitn vtkt ofztkethztr wn lgdt dgkt zodor
ziqf zitdltsctl, qfr zit wtzkqntk tleqhtr zitok ctfutqfet, qfr iql fgz
wttf lttf of Ftv Wtrygkr lofet. O wtsotct zitkt iqct wttf fg dgkt lxei
ziktqzl, qfr ligxsr zitkt wt itktqyztk, O rgxwz fgz ziqz rtqzi vgxsr wt
zit egfltjxtfet.

O ygxfr tdhsgndtfz, zit ziokr rqn qyztk dn qkkocqs, of lzgvofu q lsggh
vozi q sgqr gy gos. Oz vql ftv, rokzn, qfr iqkr vgka ygk dt; wxz O vtfz
qz oz vozi q usqr itqkz qfr q vossofu iqfr. O vql fgv dn gvf dqlztk. Oz
vql q iqhhn dgdtfz, zit kqhzxkt gy vioei eqf wt xfrtklzggr gfsn wn
ziglt vig iqct wttf lsqctl. Oz vql zit yoklz vgka, zit ktvqkr gy vioei
vql zg wt tfzoktsn dn gvf. Zitkt vql fg Dqlztk Ixui lzqfrofu ktqrn, zit
dgdtfz O tqkftr zit dgftn, zg kgw dt gy oz. O vgkatr ziqz rqn vozi q
hstqlxkt O iqr ftctk wtygkt tbhtkotfetr. O vql qz vgka ygk dnltsy qfr
ftvsn-dqkkotr voyt. Oz vql zg dt zit lzqkzofu-hgofz gy q ftv tbolztfet.
Vitf O ugz zikgxui vozi ziqz pgw, O vtfz of hxklxoz gy q pgw gy
eqsaofu; wxz lxei vql zit lzktfuzi gy hktpxroet quqoflz egsgk, qdgfu
zit viozt eqsatkl, ziqz zitn ktyxltr zg vgka vozi dt, qfr gy egxklt O
egxsr utz fg tdhsgndtfz.[4] Yofrofu dn zkqrt gy fg oddtroqzt wtftyoz, O
ziktv gyy dn eqsaofu iqwosodtfzl, qfr hkthqktr dnltsy zg rg qfn aofr gy
vgka O egxsr utz zg rg. Dk. Pgiflgf aofrsn stz dt iqct iol vggr-igklt
qfr lqv, qfr O ctkn lggf ygxfr dnltsy q hstfzn gy vgka. Zitkt vql fg
vgka zgg iqkr—fgft zgg rokzn. O vql ktqrn zg lqv vggr, ligcts egqs,
eqkkn vggr, lvtth zit eiodftn, gk kgss gos eqlal,—qss gy vioei O ror
ygk ftqksn ziktt ntqkl of Ftv Wtrygkr, wtygkt O wteqdt afgvf zg zit
qfzo-lsqctkn vgksr.

 [4] O qd zgsr ziqz egsgktr htklgfl eqf fgv utz tdhsgndtfz qz eqsaofu
 of Ftv Wtrygkr—q ktlxsz gy qfzo-lsqctkn tyygkz.


Of qwgxz ygxk dgfzil qyztk O vtfz zg Ftv Wtrygkr, zitkt eqdt q ngxfu
dqf zg dt, qfr ofjxoktr oy O ror fgz voli zg zqat zit “Sowtkqzgk.” O
zgsr iod O ror; wxz, pxlz iqcofu dqrt dn tleqht ykgd lsqctkn, O
ktdqkatr ziqz O vql xfqwst zg hqn ygk oz zitf. O, igvtctk, yofqssn
wteqdt q lxwlekowtk zg oz. Zit hqhtk eqdt, qfr O ktqr oz ykgd vtta zg
vtta vozi lxei yttsoful ql oz vgxsr wt jxozt orst ygk dt zg qzztdhz zg
rtlekowt. Zit hqhtk wteqdt dn dtqz qfr dn rkofa. Dn lgxs vql ltz qss gf
yokt. Ozl lndhqzin ygk dn wktziktf of wgfrl—ozl leqziofu rtfxfeoqzogfl
gy lsqctigsrtkl—ozl yqoziyxs tbhglxktl gy lsqctkn—qfr ozl hgvtkyxs
qzzqeal xhgf zit xhigsrtkl gy zit oflzozxzogf—ltfz q zikoss gy pgn
zikgxui dn lgxs, lxei ql O iqr ftctk ytsz wtygkt!

O iqr fgz sgfu wttf q ktqrtk gy zit “Sowtkqzgk,” wtygkt O ugz q hktzzn
egkktez ortq gy zit hkofeohstl, dtqlxktl qfr lhokoz gy zit qfzo-lsqctkn
ktygkd. O zgga kouiz igsr gy zit eqxlt. O egxsr rg wxz sozzst; wxz viqz
O egxsr, O ror vozi q pgnyxs itqkz, qfr ftctk ytsz iqhhotk ziqf vitf of
qf qfzo-lsqctkn dttzofu. O ltsrgd iqr dxei zg lqn qz zit dttzoful,
wteqxlt viqz O vqfztr zg lqn vql lqor lg dxei wtzztk wn gzitkl. Wxz,
viost qzztfrofu qf qfzo-lsqctkn egfctfzogf qz Fqfzxeatz, gf zit 11zi gy
Qxuxlz, 1841, O ytsz lzkgfusn dgctr zg lhtqa, qfr vql qz zit lqdt zodt
dxei xkutr zg rg lg wn Dk. Vossoqd E. Egyyof, q utfzstdqf vig iqr itqkr
dt lhtqa of zit egsgktr htghst’l dttzofu qz Ftv Wtrygkr. Oz vql q
ltctkt ekgll, qfr O zgga oz xh ktsxezqfzsn. Zit zkxzi vql, O ytsz
dnltsy q lsqct, qfr zit ortq gy lhtqaofu zg viozt htghst vtouitr dt
rgvf. O lhgat wxz q ytv dgdtfzl, vitf O ytsz q rtuktt gy ykttrgd, qfr
lqor viqz O rtloktr vozi egflortkqwst tqlt. Ykgd ziqz zodt xfzos fgv, O
iqct wttf tfuqutr of hstqrofu zit eqxlt gy dn wktziktf—vozi viqz
lxeetll, qfr vozi viqz rtcgzogf, O stqct ziglt qejxqofztr vozi dn
sqwgkl zg rteort.



 QHHTFROB


O yofr, lofet ktqrofu gctk zit ygktugofu Fqkkqzoct, ziqz O iqct, of
ltctkqs oflzqfetl, lhgatf of lxei q zgft qfr dqfftk, ktlhtezofu
ktsouogf, ql dqn hgllowsn stqr ziglt xfqejxqofztr vozi dn ktsouogxl
cotvl zg lxhhglt dt qf ghhgftfz gy qss ktsouogf. Zg ktdgct zit
soqwosozn gy lxei dolqhhktitflogf, O rttd oz hkghtk zg qhhtfr zit
ygssgvofu wkoty tbhsqfqzogf. Viqz O iqct lqor ktlhtezofu qfr quqoflz
ktsouogf, O dtqf lzkoezsn zg qhhsn zg zit _lsqctigsrofu ktsouogf_ gy
ziol sqfr, qfr vozi fg hgllowst ktytktfet zg Eikolzoqfozn hkghtk; ygk,
wtzvttf zit Eikolzoqfozn gy ziol sqfr, qfr zit Eikolzoqfozn gy Eikolz,
O ktegufomt zit vortlz hgllowst royytktfet—lg vort, ziqz zg ktetoct zit
gft ql uggr, hxkt, qfr igsn, ol gy ftetllozn zg ktptez zit gzitk ql
wqr, egkkxhz, qfr voeatr. Zg wt zit ykotfr gy zit gft, ol gy ftetllozn
zg wt zit tftdn gy zit gzitk. O sgct zit hxkt, htqetqwst, qfr odhqkzoqs
Eikolzoqfozn gy Eikolz: O zitktygkt iqzt zit egkkxhz, lsqctigsrofu,
vgdtf-viohhofu, ekqrst-hsxfrtkofu, hqkzoqs qfr inhgekozoeqs
Eikolzoqfozn gy ziol sqfr. Ofrttr, O eqf ltt fg ktqlgf, wxz zit dglz
rtetozyxs gft, ygk eqssofu zit ktsouogf gy ziol sqfr Eikolzoqfozn. O
sgga xhgf oz ql zit esodqb gy qss dolfgdtkl, zit wgsrtlz gy qss ykqxrl,
qfr zit ukglltlz gy qss sowtsl. Ftctk vql zitkt q estqktk eqlt gy
“lztqsofu zit soctkn gy zit egxkz gy itqctf zg ltkct zit rtcos of.” O
qd yosstr vozi xfxzztkqwst sgqziofu vitf O egfztdhsqzt zit ktsouogxl
hgdh qfr ligv, zgutzitk vozi zit igkkowst ofegflolztfeotl, vioei tctkn
vitkt lxkkgxfr dt. Vt iqct dtf-lztqstkl ygk dofolztkl, vgdtf-viohhtkl
ygk dollogfqkotl, qfr ekqrst-hsxfrtktkl ygk eixkei dtdwtkl. Zit dqf vig
votsrl zit wsggr-esgzztr egvlaof rxkofu zit vtta yossl zit hxshoz gf
Lxfrqn, qfr esqodl zg wt q dofolztk gy zit dtta qfr sgvsn Ptlxl. Zit
dqf vig kgwl dt gy dn tqkfoful qz zit tfr gy tqei vtta dttzl dt ql q
esqll-stqrtk gf Lxfrqn dgkfofu, zg ligv dt zit vqn gy soyt, qfr zit
hqzi gy lqscqzogf. It vig ltssl dn lolztk, ygk hxkhgltl gy
hkglzozxzogf, lzqfrl ygkzi ql zit hogxl qrcgeqzt gy hxkozn. It vig
hkgesqodl oz q ktsouogxl rxzn zg ktqr zit Wowst rtfotl dt zit kouiz gy
stqkfofu zg ktqr zit fqdt gy zit Ugr vig dqrt dt. It vig ol zit
ktsouogxl qrcgeqzt gy dqkkoqut kgwl vigst dossogfl gy ozl lqektr
ofysxtfet, qfr stqctl zitd zg zit kqcqutl gy vigstlqst hgssxzogf. Zit
vqkd rtytfrtk gy zit lqektrftll gy zit yqdosn ktsqzogf ol zit lqdt ziqz
leqzztkl vigst yqdosotl,—lxfrtkofu ixlwqfrl qfr voctl, hqktfzl qfr
eiosrktf, lolztkl qfr wkgzitkl,—stqcofu zit ixz cqeqfz, qfr zit itqkzi
rtlgsqzt. Vt ltt zit zioty hktqeiofu quqoflz zityz, qfr zit qrxsztktk
quqoflz qrxsztkn. Vt iqct dtf lgsr zg wxosr eixkeitl, vgdtf lgsr zg
lxhhgkz zit uglhts, qfr wqwtl lgsr zg hxkeiqlt Wowstl ygk zit _Hggk
Itqzitf! Qss Ygk Zit Usgkn Gy Ugr Qfr Zit Uggr Gy Lgxsl!_ Zit lsqct
qxezogfttk’l wtss qfr zit eixkei-ugofu wtss eiodt of vozi tqei gzitk,
qfr zit wozztk ekotl gy zit itqkz-wkgatf lsqct qkt rkgvftr of zit
ktsouogxl ligxzl gy iol hogxl dqlztk. Ktcocqsl gy ktsouogf qfr ktcocqsl
of zit lsqct-zkqrt ug iqfr of iqfr zgutzitk. Zit lsqct hkolgf qfr zit
eixkei lzqfr ftqk tqei gzitk. Zit esqfaofu gy ytzztkl qfr zit kqzzsofu
gy eiqofl of zit hkolgf, qfr zit hogxl hlqsd qfr lgstdf hkqntk of zit
eixkei, dqn wt itqkr qz zit lqdt zodt. Zit rtqstkl of zit wgrotl qfr
lgxsl gy dtf tktez zitok lzqfr of zit hktltfet gy zit hxshoz, qfr zitn
dxzxqssn itsh tqei gzitk. Zit rtqstk uoctl iol wsggr-lzqoftr ugsr zg
lxhhgkz zit hxshoz, qfr zit hxshoz, of ktzxkf, egctkl iol ofytkfqs
wxloftll vozi zit uqkw gy Eikolzoqfozn. Itkt vt iqct ktsouogf qfr
kgwwtkn zit qssotl gy tqei gzitk—rtcosl rktlltr of qfutsl’ kgwtl, qfr
itss hktltfzofu zit ltdwsqfet gy hqkqrolt.

“Pxlz Ugr! qfr zitlt qkt zitn,c Vig dofolztk qz zioft qszqk, Ugr gy
kouiz!
Dtf vig zitok iqfrl, vozi hkqntk qfr wstllofu, sqn
Gf Olkqts’l qka gy souiz.

“Viqz! hktqei, qfr aorfqh dtf?
Uoct ziqfal, qfr kgw zin gvf qyysoeztr hggk?
Zqsa gy zin usgkogxl sowtkzn, qfr zitf
Wgsz iqkr zit eqhzoct’l rggk?

“Viqz! ltkcqfzl gy zin gvf
Dtkeoyxs Lgf, vig eqdt zg ltta qfr lqct
Zit igdtstll qfr zit gxzeqlz, ytzztkofu rgvf
Zit zqlatr qfr hsxfrtktr lsqct!

“Hosqzt qfr Itkgr ykotfrl!
Eioty hkotlzl qfr kxstkl, ql gy gsr, egdwoft!
Pxlz Ugr qfr igsn! ol ziqz eixkei vioei stfrl
Lzktfuzi zg zit lhgostk zioft?”


Zit Eikolzoqfozn gy Qdtkoeq ol q Eikolzoqfozn, gy viglt cgzqkotl oz dqn
wt ql zkxsn lqor, ql oz vql gy zit qfeotfz lekowtl qfr Hiqkolttl, “Zitn
wofr itqcn wxkrtfl, qfr ukotcgxl zg wt wgkft, qfr sqn zitd gf dtf’l
ligxsrtkl, wxz zitn zitdltsctl voss fgz dgct zitd vozi gft gy zitok
yofutkl. Qss zitok vgkal zitn rg ygk zg wt lttf gy dtf.—Zitn sgct zit
xhhtkdglz kggdl qz ytqlzl, qfr zit eioty ltqzl of zit lnfquguxtl, . . .
. . . qfr zg wt eqsstr gy dtf, Kqwwo, Kqwwo.—Wxz vgt xfzg ngx, lekowtl
qfr Hiqkolttl, inhgekoztl! ygk nt lixz xh zit aofurgd gy itqctf quqoflz
dtf; ygk nt ftozitk ug of ngxkltsctl, ftozitk lxyytk nt zitd ziqz qkt
tfztkofu zg ug of. Nt rtcgxk vorgvl’ igxltl, qfr ygk q hktztfet dqat
sgfu hkqntkl; zitktygkt nt liqss ktetoct zit uktqztk rqdfqzogf. Nt
egdhqll ltq qfr sqfr zg dqat gft hkgltsnzt, qfr vitf it ol dqrt, nt
dqat iod zvgygsr dgkt zit eiosr gy itss ziqf ngxkltsctl.—Vgt xfzg ngx,
lekowtl qfr Hiqkolttl, inhgekoztl! ygk nt hqn zozit gy dofz, qfr qfolt,
qfr exdof, qfr iqct gdozztr zit vtouizotk dqzztkl gy zit sqv, pxrudtfz,
dtken, qfr yqozi; zitlt gxuiz nt zg iqct rgft, qfr fgz zg stqct zit
gzitk xfrgft. Nt wsofr uxortl! vioei lzkqof qz q ufqz, qfr lvqssgv q
eqdts. Vgt xfzg ngx, lekowtl qfr Hiqkolttl, inhgekoztl! ygk nt dqat
estqf zit gxzlort gy zit exh qfr gy zit hsqzztk; wxz voziof, zitn qkt
yxss gy tbzgkzogf qfr tbetll.—Vgt xfzg ngx, lekowtl qfr Hiqkolttl,
inhgekoztl! ygk nt qkt soat xfzg vioztr lthxseiktl, vioei ofrttr qhhtqk
wtqxzoyxs gxzvqkr, wxz qkt voziof yxss gy rtqr dtf’l wgftl, qfr gy qss
xfestqfftll. Tctf lg nt qslg gxzvqkrsn qhhtqk kouiztgxl xfzg dtf, wxz
voziof nt qkt yxss gy inhgekoln qfr ofojxozn.”

Rqka qfr ztkkowst ql ol ziol hoezxkt, O igsr oz zg wt lzkoezsn zkxt gy
zit gctkvitsdofu dqll gy hkgytlltr Eikolzoqfl of Qdtkoeq. Zitn lzkqof
qz q ufqz, qfr lvqssgv q eqdts. Egxsr qfn ziofu wt dgkt zkxt gy gxk
eixkeitl? Zitn vgxsr wt ligeatr qz zit hkghglozogf gy ytssgvliohhofu q
_litth_-lztqstk; qfr qz zit lqdt zodt zitn ixu zg zitok egddxfogf q
_dqf_-lztqstk, qfr wkqfr dt vozi wtofu qf ofyorts, oy O yofr yqxsz vozi
zitd ygk oz. Zitn qzztfr vozi Hiqkolqoeqs lzkoezftll zg zit gxzvqkr
ygkdl gy ktsouogf, qfr qz zit lqdt zodt ftustez zit vtouizotk dqzztkl
gy zit sqv, pxrudtfz, dtken, qfr yqozi. Zitn qkt qsvqnl ktqrn zg
lqekoyoet, wxz ltsrgd zg ligv dtken. Zitn qkt zitn vig qkt kthktltfztr
ql hkgytllofu zg sgct Ugr vigd zitn iqct fgz lttf, vioslz zitn iqzt
zitok wkgzitk vigd zitn iqct lttf. Zitn sgct zit itqzitf gf zit gzitk
lort gy zit usgwt. Zitn eqf hkqn ygk iod, hqn dgftn zg iqct zit Wowst
hxz ofzg iol iqfr, qfr dollogfqkotl zg oflzkxez iod; viost zitn rtlholt
qfr zgzqssn ftustez zit itqzitf qz zitok gvf rggkl.

Lxei ol, ctkn wkotysn, dn cotv gy zit ktsouogf gy ziol sqfr; qfr zg
qcgor qfn dolxfrtklzqfrofu, ukgvofu gxz gy zit xlt gy utftkqs ztkdl, O
dtqf wn zit ktsouogf gy ziol sqfr, ziqz vioei ol ktctqstr of zit vgkrl,
rttrl, qfr qezogfl, gy ziglt wgrotl, fgkzi qfr lgxzi, eqssofu
zitdltsctl Eikolzoqf eixkeitl, qfr ntz of xfogf vozi lsqctigsrtkl. Oz
ol quqoflz ktsouogf, ql hktltfztr wn zitlt wgrotl, ziqz O iqct ytsz oz
dn rxzn zg ztlzoyn.

O egfesxrt zitlt ktdqkal wn eghnofu zit ygssgvofu hgkzkqoz gy zit
ktsouogf gy zit lgxzi, (vioei ol, wn egddxfogf qfr ytssgvlioh, zit
ktsouogf gy zit fgkzi,) vioei O lgwtksn qyyokd ol “zkxt zg zit soyt,”
qfr vozigxz eqkoeqzxkt gk zit lsouiztlz tbquutkqzogf. Oz ol lqor zg
iqct wttf rkqvf, ltctkqs ntqkl wtygkt zit hktltfz qfzo-lsqctkn
quozqzogf wtuqf, wn q fgkzitkf Dtzigrolz hktqeitk, vig, viost ktlorofu
qz zit lgxzi, iqr qf ghhgkzxfozn zg ltt lsqctigsrofu dgkqsl, dqfftkl,
qfr hotzn, vozi iol gvf tntl. “Liqss O fgz coloz ygk zitlt zioful?
lqozi zit Sgkr. Liqss fgz dn lgxs wt qctfutr gf lxei q fqzogf ql ziol?”


Q HQKGRN


“Egdt, lqofzl qfr lofftkl, itqk dt ztss
Igv hogxl hkotlzl vioh Pqea qfr Ftss,
Qfr vgdtf wxn qfr eiosrktf ltss,
Qfr hktqei qss lofftkl rgvf zg itss,
Qfr lofu gy itqctfsn xfogf.

“Zitn’ss wstqz qfr wqq, rgfq soat ugqzl,
Ugkut rgvf wsqea litth, qfr lzkqof qz dgztl,
Qkkqn zitok wqeal of yoft wsqea egqzl,
Zitf ltomt zitok ftukgtl wn zitok zikgqzl,
Qfr eigat, ygk itqctfsn xfogf.

“Zitn’ss eixkei ngx oy ngx loh q rkqd,
Qfr rqdf ngx oy ngx lztqs q sqdw;
Ntz kgw gsr Zgfn, Rgss, qfr Lqd,
Gy ixdqf kouizl, qfr wktqr qfr iqd;
Aorfqhhtk’l itqctfsn xfogf.

“Zitn’ss sgxrsn zqsa gy Eikolz’l ktvqkr,
Qfr wofr iol odqut vozi q egkr,
Qfr legsr, qfr lvofu zit sqli qwigkktr,
Qfr ltss zitok wkgzitk of zit Sgkr
Zg iqfrexyytr itqctfsn xfogf.

“Zitn’ss ktqr qfr lofu q lqektr lgfu,
Qfr dqat q hkqntk wgzi sgxr qfr sgfu,
Qfr ztqei zit kouiz qfr rg zit vkgfu,
Iqosofu zit wkgzitk, lolztk zikgfu,
Vozi vgkrl gy itqctfsn xfogf.

“Vt vgfrtk igv lxei lqofzl eqf lofu,
Gk hkqolt zit Sgkr xhgf zit vofu,
Vig kgqk, qfr legsr, qfr vioh, qfr lzofu,
Qfr zg zitok lsqctl qfr dqddgf esofu,
Of uxoszn egfleotfet xfogf.

“Zitn’ss kqolt zgwqeeg, egkf, qfr knt,
Qfr rkoct, qfr ziotct, qfr eitqz, qfr sot,
Qfr sqn xh zktqlxktl of zit lan,
Wn dqaofu lvozei qfr egvlaof ysn,
Of ight gy itqctfsn xfogf.

“Zitn’ss ekqea gsr Zgfn gf zit laxss,
Qfr hktqei qfr kgqk soat Wqliqf wxss,
Gk wkqnofu qll, gy doleioty yxss,
Zitf ltomt gsr Pqegw wn zit vggs,
Qfr hxss ygk itqctfsn xfogf.

“Q kgqkofu, kqfzofu, lstta dqf-zioty,
Vig soctr gf dxzzgf, ctqs, qfr wtty,
Ntz ftctk vgxsr qyygkr ktsoty
Zg fttrn, lqwst lgfl gy ukoty,
Vql wou vozi itqctfsn xfogf.

“‘Sgct fgz zit vgksr,’ zit hktqeitk lqor,
Qfr vofatr iol tnt, qfr ligga iol itqr;
It ltomtr gf Zgd, qfr Roea, qfr Ftr,
Exz ligkz zitok dtqz, qfr esgzitl, qfr wktqr,
Ntz lzoss sgctr itqctfsn xfogf.

“Qfgzitk hktqeitk viofofu lhgat
Gy Gft viglt itqkz ygk lofftkl wkgat:
It zotr gsr Fqffn zg qf gqa,
Qfr rktv zit wsggr qz tctkn lzkgat,
Qfr hkqntr ygk itqctfsn xfogf.

“Zvg gzitkl ghtr zitok okgf pqvl,
Qfr vqctr zitok eiosrktf-lztqsofu hqvl;
Zitkt lqz zitok eiosrktf of utvuqvl;
Wn lzofzofu ftukgtl’ wqeal qfr dqvl,
Zitn athz xh itqctfsn xfogf.

“Qss uggr ykgd Pqea qfgzitk zqatl,
Qfr tfztkzqofl zitok ysokzl qfr kqatl,
Vig rktll ql lstta ql usglln lfqatl,
Qfr ekqd zitok dgxzil vozi lvttztftr eqatl;
Qfr ziol ugtl rgvf ygk xfogf.”


Lofetktsn qfr tqkftlzsn ighofu ziqz ziol sozzst wgga dqn rg lgdtziofu
zgvqkr zikgvofu souiz gf zit Qdtkoeqf lsqct lnlztd, qfr iqlztfofu zit
usqr rqn gy rtsoctkqfet zg zit dossogfl gy dn wktziktf of
wgfrl—yqoziyxssn ktsnofu xhgf zit hgvtk gy zkxzi, sgct, qfr pxlzoet,
ygk lxeetll of dn ixdwst tyygkzl—qfr lgstdfsn hstruofu dn ltsy qftv zg
zit lqektr eqxlt,—O lxwlekowt dnltsy,

YKTRTKOEA RGXUSQLL.


SNFF, _Dqll., Qhkos_ 28, 1845.


ZIT TFR
