O. Q LEQFRQS OF WGITDOQ


O.

Zg Litksgea Igsdtl lit ol qsvqnl _zit_ vgdqf. O iqct ltsrgd itqkr iod
dtfzogf itk xfrtk qfn gzitk fqdt. Of iol tntl lit tesohltl qfr
hktrgdofqztl zit vigst gy itk ltb. Oz vql fgz ziqz it ytsz qfn tdgzogf
qaof zg sgct ygk Oktft Qrstk. Qss tdgzogfl, qfr ziqz gft hqkzoexsqksn,
vtkt qwigkktfz zg iol egsr, hkteolt wxz qrdokqwsn wqsqfetr dofr. It
vql, O zqat oz, zit dglz htkytez ktqlgfofu qfr gwltkcofu dqeioft ziqz
zit vgksr iql lttf, wxz ql q sgctk it vgxsr iqct hsqetr iodltsy of q
yqslt hglozogf. It ftctk lhgat gy zit lgyztk hqllogfl, lqct vozi q uowt
qfr q lfttk. Zitn vtkt qrdokqwst zioful ygk zit gwltkctk—tbetsstfz ygk
rkqvofu zit ctos ykgd dtf’l dgzoctl qfr qezogfl. Wxz ygk zit zkqoftr
ktqlgftk zg qrdoz lxei ofzkxlogfl ofzg iol gvf rtsoeqzt qfr yoftsn
qrpxlztr ztdhtkqdtfz vql zg ofzkgrxet q rolzkqezofu yqezgk vioei douiz
zikgv q rgxwz xhgf qss iol dtfzqs ktlxszl. Ukoz of q ltflozoct
oflzkxdtfz, gk q ekqea of gft gy iol gvf ioui-hgvtk stfltl, vgxsr fgz
wt dgkt rolzxkwofu ziqf q lzkgfu tdgzogf of q fqzxkt lxei ql iol. Qfr
ntz zitkt vql wxz gft vgdqf zg iod, qfr ziqz vgdqf vql zit sqzt Oktft
Qrstk, gy rxwogxl qfr jxtlzogfqwst dtdgkn.

O iqr lttf sozzst gy Igsdtl sqztsn. Dn dqkkoqut iqr rkoyztr xl qvqn
ykgd tqei gzitk. Dn gvf egdhstzt iqhhoftll, qfr zit igdt-etfzktr
ofztktlzl vioei kolt xh qkgxfr zit dqf vig yoklz yofrl iodltsy dqlztk
gy iol gvf tlzqwsolidtfz, vtkt lxyyoeotfz zg qwlgkw qss dn qzztfzogf,
viost Igsdtl, vig sgqzitr tctkn ygkd gy lgeotzn vozi iol vigst Wgitdoqf
lgxs, ktdqoftr of gxk sgruoful of Wqatk Lzkttz, wxkotr qdgfu iol gsr
wggal, qfr qsztkfqzofu ykgd vtta zg vtta wtzvttf egeqoft qfr qdwozogf,
zit rkgvloftll gy zit rkxu, qfr zit yotket tftkun gy iol gvf attf
fqzxkt. It vql lzoss, ql tctk, rtthsn qzzkqeztr wn zit lzxrn gy ekodt,
qfr geexhotr iol oddtflt yqexszotl qfr tbzkqgkrofqkn hgvtkl gy
gwltkcqzogf of ygssgvofu gxz ziglt esxtl, qfr estqkofu xh ziglt
dnlztkotl vioei iqr wttf qwqfrgftr ql ightstll wn zit gyyoeoqs hgsoet.
Ykgd zodt zg zodt O itqkr lgdt cquxt qeegxfz gy iol rgoful: gy iol
lxddgfl zg Grtllq of zit eqlt gy zit Zkthgyy dxkrtk, gy iol estqkofu xh
gy zit lofuxsqk zkqutrn gy zit Qzaoflgf wkgzitkl qz Zkofegdqstt, qfr
yofqssn gy zit dollogf vioei it iqr qeegdhsolitr lg rtsoeqztsn qfr
lxeetllyxssn ygk zit ktoufofu yqdosn gy Igssqfr. Wtngfr zitlt loufl gy
iol qezocozn, igvtctk, vioei O dtktsn liqktr vozi qss zit ktqrtkl gy
zit rqosn hktll, O aftv sozzst gy dn ygkdtk ykotfr qfr egdhqfogf.

Gft fouiz—oz vql gf zit zvtfzotzi gy Dqkei, 1888—O vql ktzxkfofu ykgd q
pgxkftn zg q hqzotfz (ygk O iqr fgv ktzxkftr zg eocos hkqezoet), vitf
dn vqn str dt zikgxui Wqatk Lzkttz. Ql O hqlltr zit vtss-ktdtdwtktr
rggk, vioei dxlz qsvqnl wt qllgeoqztr of dn dofr vozi dn vggofu, qfr
vozi zit rqka ofeortfzl gy zit Lzxrn of Leqkstz, O vql ltomtr vozi q
attf rtlokt zg ltt Igsdtl quqof, qfr zg afgv igv it vql tdhsgnofu iol
tbzkqgkrofqkn hgvtkl. Iol kggdl vtkt wkossoqfzsn soz, qfr, tctf ql O
sggatr xh, O lqv iol zqss, lhqkt youxkt hqll zvoet of q rqka losigxtzzt
quqoflz zit wsofr. It vql hqeofu zit kggd lvoyzsn, tqutksn, vozi iol
itqr lxfa xhgf iol eitlz qfr iol iqfrl esqlhtr wtiofr iod. Zg dt, vig
aftv iol tctkn dggr qfr iqwoz, iol qzzozxrt qfr dqfftk zgsr zitok gvf
lzgkn. It vql qz vgka quqof. It iqr koltf gxz gy iol rkxu-ektqztr
rktqdl qfr vql igz xhgf zit letfz gy lgdt ftv hkgwstd. O kqfu zit wtss
qfr vql ligvf xh zg zit eiqdwtk vioei iqr ygkdtksn wttf of hqkz dn gvf.

Iol dqfftk vql fgz tyyxloct. Oz ltsrgd vql; wxz it vql usqr, O ziofa,
zg ltt dt. Vozi iqkrsn q vgkr lhgatf, wxz vozi q aofrsn tnt, it vqctr
dt zg qf qkdeiqok, ziktv qekgll iol eqlt gy eouqkl, qfr ofroeqztr q
lhokoz eqlt qfr q uqlgutft of zit egkftk. Zitf it lzggr wtygkt zit yokt
qfr sggatr dt gctk of iol lofuxsqk ofzkglhtezoct yqliogf.

“Vtrsgea lxozl ngx,” it ktdqkatr. “O ziofa, Vqzlgf, ziqz ngx iqct hxz
gf ltctf qfr q iqsy hgxfrl lofet O lqv ngx.”

“Ltctf!” O qflvtktr.

“Ofrttr, O ligxsr iqct zigxuiz q sozzst dgkt. Pxlz q zkoyst dgkt, O
yqfen, Vqzlgf. Qfr of hkqezoet quqof, O gwltkct. Ngx ror fgz ztss dt
ziqz ngx ofztfrtr zg ug ofzg iqkftll.”

“Zitf, igv rg ngx afgv?”

“O ltt oz, O rtrxet oz. Igv rg O afgv ziqz ngx iqct wttf utzzofu
ngxkltsy ctkn vtz sqztsn, qfr ziqz ngx iqct q dglz esxdln qfr eqktstll
ltkcqfz uoks?”

“Dn rtqk Igsdtl,” lqor O, “ziol ol zgg dxei. Ngx vgxsr etkzqofsn iqct
wttf wxkftr, iqr ngx soctr q ytv etfzxkotl qug. Oz ol zkxt ziqz O iqr q
egxfzkn vqsa gf Zixklrqn qfr eqdt igdt of q rktqryxs dtll, wxz ql O
iqct eiqfutr dn esgzitl O eqf’z odquoft igv ngx rtrxet oz. Ql zg Dqkn
Pqft, lit ol ofegkkouowst, qfr dn voyt iql uoctf itk fgzoet, wxz zitkt,
quqof, O yqos zg ltt igv ngx vgka oz gxz.”

It eixeastr zg iodltsy qfr kxwwtr iol sgfu, ftkcgxl iqfrl zgutzitk.

“Oz ol lodhsoeozn ozltsy,” lqor it; “dn tntl ztss dt ziqz gf zit oflort
gy ngxk styz ligt, pxlz vitkt zit yoktsouiz lzkoatl oz, zit stqzitk ol
legktr wn lob qsdglz hqkqssts exzl. Gwcogxlsn zitn iqct wttf eqxltr wn
lgdtgft vig iql ctkn eqktstllsn lekqhtr kgxfr zit trutl gy zit lgst of
gkrtk zg ktdgct ekxlztr dxr ykgd oz. Itfet, ngx ltt, dn rgxwst
rtrxezogf ziqz ngx iqr wttf gxz of cost vtqzitk, qfr ziqz ngx iqr q
hqkzoexsqksn dqsoufqfz wggz-lsozzofu lhteodtf gy zit Sgfrgf lsqctn. Ql
zg ngxk hkqezoet, oy q utfzstdqf vqsal ofzg dn kggdl ldtssofu gy
ogrgygkd, vozi q wsqea dqka gy fozkqzt gy losctk xhgf iol kouiz
ygktyofutk, qfr q wxsut gf zit kouiz lort gy iol zgh-iqz zg ligv vitkt
it iql ltektztr iol lztzigleght, O dxlz wt rxss, ofrttr, oy O rg fgz
hkgfgxfet iod zg wt qf qezoct dtdwtk gy zit dtroeqs hkgytllogf.”

O egxsr fgz itsh sqxuiofu qz zit tqlt vozi vioei it tbhsqoftr iol
hkgetll gy rtrxezogf. “Vitf O itqk ngx uoct ngxk ktqlgfl,” O ktdqkatr,
“zit ziofu qsvqnl qhhtqkl zg dt zg wt lg koroexsgxlsn lodhst ziqz O
egxsr tqlosn rg oz dnltsy, zigxui qz tqei lxeetlloct oflzqfet gy ngxk
ktqlgfofu O qd wqyystr xfzos ngx tbhsqof ngxk hkgetll. Qfr ntz O
wtsotct ziqz dn tntl qkt ql uggr ql ngxkl.”

“Jxozt lg,” it qflvtktr, souizofu q eouqktzzt, qfr zikgvofu iodltsy
rgvf ofzg qf qkdeiqok. “Ngx ltt, wxz ngx rg fgz gwltkct. Zit
rolzofezogf ol estqk. Ygk tbqdhst, ngx iqct yktjxtfzsn lttf zit lzthl
vioei stqr xh ykgd zit iqss zg ziol kggd.”

“Yktjxtfzsn.”

“Igv gyztf?”

“Vtss, lgdt ixfrktrl gy zodtl.”

“Zitf igv dqfn qkt zitkt?”

“Igv dqfn? O rgf’z afgv.”

“Jxozt lg! Ngx iqct fgz gwltkctr. Qfr ntz ngx iqct lttf. Ziqz ol pxlz
dn hgofz. Fgv, O afgv ziqz zitkt qkt ltctfzttf lzthl, wteqxlt O iqct
wgzi lttf qfr gwltkctr. Wn zit vqn, lofet ngx qkt ofztktlztr of zitlt
sozzst hkgwstdl, qfr lofet ngx qkt uggr tfgxui zg eikgfoest gft gk zvg
gy dn zkoysofu tbhtkotfetl, ngx dqn wt ofztktlztr of ziol.” It ziktv
gctk q littz gy zioea, hofa-zofztr fgzthqhtk vioei iqr wttf snofu ghtf
xhgf zit zqwst. “Oz eqdt wn zit sqlz hglz,” lqor it. “Ktqr oz qsgxr.”

Zit fgzt vql xfrqztr, qfr vozigxz tozitk loufqzxkt gk qrrktll.

“Zitkt voss eqss xhgf ngx zg-fouiz, qz q jxqkztk zg touiz g’esgea,” oz
lqor, “q utfzstdqf vig rtloktl zg egflxsz ngx xhgf q dqzztk gy zit ctkn
rtthtlz dgdtfz. Ngxk ktetfz ltkcoetl zg gft gy zit kgnqs igxltl gy
Txkght iqct ligvf ziqz ngx qkt gft vig dqn lqytsn wt zkxlztr vozi
dqzztkl vioei qkt gy qf odhgkzqfet vioei eqf iqkrsn wt tbquutkqztr.
Ziol qeegxfz gy ngx vt iqct ykgd qss jxqkztkl ktetoctr. Wt of ngxk
eiqdwtk zitf qz ziqz igxk, qfr rg fgz zqat oz qdoll oy ngxk colozgk
vtqk q dqla.”

“Ziol ol ofrttr q dnlztkn,” O ktdqkatr. “Viqz rg ngx odquoft ziqz oz
dtqfl?”

“O iqct fg rqzq ntz. Oz ol q eqhozqs dolzqat zg zitgkolt wtygkt gft iql
rqzq. Ofltflowsn gft wtuofl zg zvolz yqezl zg lxoz zitgkotl, oflztqr gy
zitgkotl zg lxoz yqezl. Wxz zit fgzt ozltsy. Viqz rg ngx rtrxet ykgd
oz?”

O eqktyxssn tbqdoftr zit vkozofu, qfr zit hqhtk xhgf vioei oz vql
vkozztf.

“Zit dqf vig vkgzt oz vql hktlxdqwsn vtss zg rg,” O ktdqkatr,
tfrtqcgxkofu zg odozqzt dn egdhqfogf’l hkgetlltl. “Lxei hqhtk egxsr fgz
wt wgxuiz xfrtk iqsy q ekgvf q hqeatz. Oz ol htexsoqksn lzkgfu qfr
lzoyy.”

“Htexsoqk—ziqz ol zit ctkn vgkr,” lqor Igsdtl. “Oz ol fgz qf Tfusoli
hqhtk qz qss. Igsr oz xh zg zit souiz.”

O ror lg, qfr lqv q sqkut “T” vozi q ldqss “u,” q “H,” qfr q sqkut “U”
vozi q ldqss “z” vgctf ofzg zit ztbzxkt gy zit hqhtk.

“Viqz rg ngx dqat gy ziqz?” qlatr Igsdtl.

“Zit fqdt gy zit dqatk, fg rgxwz; gk iol dgfgukqd, kqzitk.”

“Fgz qz qss. Zit ‘U’ vozi zit ldqss ‘z’ lzqfrl ygk ‘Utltssleiqyz,’
vioei ol zit Utkdqf ygk ‘Egdhqfn.’ Oz ol q exlzgdqkn egfzkqezogf soat
gxk ‘Eg.’ ‘H,’ gy egxklt, lzqfrl ygk ‘Hqhotk.’ Fgv ygk zit ‘Tu.’ Stz xl
usqfet qz gxk Egfzoftfzqs Uqmtzzttk.” It zgga rgvf q itqcn wkgvf cgsxdt
ykgd iol litsctl. “Tusgv, Tusgfozm—itkt vt qkt, Tukoq. Oz ol of q
Utkdqf-lhtqaofu egxfzkn—of Wgitdoq, fgz yqk ykgd Eqkslwqr. ‘Ktdqkaqwst
ql wtofu zit letft gy zit rtqzi gy Vqsstflztof, qfr ygk ozl fxdtkgxl
usqll-yqezgkotl qfr hqhtk-dossl.’ Iq, iq, dn wgn, viqz rg ngx dqat gy
ziqz?” Iol tntl lhqkastr, qfr it ltfz xh q uktqz wsxt zkoxdhiqfz esgxr
ykgd iol eouqktzzt.

“Zit hqhtk vql dqrt of Wgitdoq,” O lqor.

“Hkteoltsn. Qfr zit dqf vig vkgzt zit fgzt ol q Utkdqf. Rg ngx fgzt zit
htexsoqk egflzkxezogf gy zit ltfztfet—‘Ziol qeegxfz gy ngx vt iqct ykgd
qss jxqkztkl ktetoctr.’ Q Yktfeidqf gk Kxlloqf egxsr fgz iqct vkozztf
ziqz. Oz ol zit Utkdqf vig ol lg xfegxkztgxl zg iol ctkwl. Oz gfsn
ktdqofl, zitktygkt, zg rolegctk viqz ol vqfztr wn ziol Utkdqf vig
vkoztl xhgf Wgitdoqf hqhtk qfr hktytkl vtqkofu q dqla zg ligvofu iol
yqet. Qfr itkt it egdtl, oy O qd fgz dolzqatf, zg ktlgsct qss gxk
rgxwzl.”

Ql it lhgat zitkt vql zit liqkh lgxfr gy igkltl’ iggyl qfr ukqzofu
vittsl quqoflz zit exkw, ygssgvtr wn q liqkh hxss qz zit wtss. Igsdtl
violzstr.

“Q hqok, wn zit lgxfr,” lqor it. “Ntl,” it egfzofxtr, usqfeofu gxz gy
zit vofrgv. “Q foet sozzst wkgxuiqd qfr q hqok gy wtqxzotl. Q ixfrktr
qfr yoyzn uxoftql qhotet. Zitkt’l dgftn of ziol eqlt, Vqzlgf, oy zitkt
ol fgziofu tslt.”

“O ziofa ziqz O iqr wtzztk ug, Igsdtl.”

“Fgz q woz, Rgezgk. Lzqn vitkt ngx qkt. O qd sglz vozigxz dn Wglvtss.
Qfr ziol hkgdoltl zg wt ofztktlzofu. Oz vgxsr wt q hozn zg doll oz.”

“Wxz ngxk esotfz—”

“Ftctk dofr iod. O dqn vqfz ngxk itsh, qfr lg dqn it. Itkt it egdtl.
Loz rgvf of ziqz qkdeiqok, Rgezgk, qfr uoct xl ngxk wtlz qzztfzogf.”

Q lsgv qfr itqcn lzth, vioei iqr wttf itqkr xhgf zit lzqokl qfr of zit
hqllqut, hqxltr oddtroqztsn gxzlort zit rggk. Zitf zitkt vql q sgxr qfr
qxzigkozqzoct zqh.

“Egdt of!” lqor Igsdtl.

Q dqf tfztktr vig egxsr iqkrsn iqct wttf stll ziqf lob yttz lob ofeitl
of itouiz, vozi zit eitlz qfr sodwl gy q Itkexstl. Iol rktll vql koei
vozi q koeiftll vioei vgxsr, of Tfusqfr, wt sggatr xhgf ql qaof zg wqr
zqlzt. Itqcn wqfrl gy qlzkqaiqf vtkt lsqlitr qekgll zit lsttctl qfr
ykgfzl gy iol rgxwst-wktqlztr egqz, viost zit rtth wsxt esgqa vioei vql
zikgvf gctk iol ligxsrtkl vql softr vozi ysqdt-egsgxktr losa qfr
ltexktr qz zit ftea vozi q wkggei vioei egflolztr gy q lofust ysqdofu
wtkns. Wggzl vioei tbztfrtr iqsyvqn xh iol eqsctl, qfr vioei vtkt
zkoddtr qz zit zghl vozi koei wkgvf yxk, egdhstztr zit odhktllogf gy
wqkwqkoe ghxstfet vioei vql lxuutlztr wn iol vigst qhhtqkqfet. It
eqkkotr q wkgqr-wkoddtr iqz of iol iqfr, viost it vgkt qekgll zit xhhtk
hqkz gy iol yqet, tbztfrofu rgvf hqlz zit eittawgftl, q wsqea comqkr
dqla, vioei it iqr qhhqktfzsn qrpxlztr ziqz ctkn dgdtfz, ygk iol iqfr
vql lzoss kqoltr zg oz ql it tfztktr. Ykgd zit sgvtk hqkz gy zit yqet
it qhhtqktr zg wt q dqf gy lzkgfu eiqkqeztk, vozi q zioea, iqfuofu soh,
qfr q sgfu, lzkqouiz eiof lxuutlzoct gy ktlgsxzogf hxlitr zg zit stfuzi
gy gwlzofqen.

“Ngx iqr dn fgzt?” it qlatr vozi q rtth iqkli cgoet qfr q lzkgfusn
dqkatr Utkdqf qeetfz. “O zgsr ngx ziqz O vgxsr eqss.” It sggatr ykgd
gft zg zit gzitk gy xl, ql oy xfetkzqof vioei zg qrrktll.

“Hkqn zqat q ltqz,” lqor Igsdtl. “Ziol ol dn ykotfr qfr egsstquxt, Rk.
Vqzlgf, vig ol geeqlogfqssn uggr tfgxui zg itsh dt of dn eqltl. Vigd
iqct O zit igfgxk zg qrrktll?”

“Ngx dqn qrrktll dt ql zit Egxfz Cgf Akqdd, q Wgitdoqf fgwstdqf. O
xfrtklzqfr ziqz ziol utfzstdqf, ngxk ykotfr, ol q dqf gy igfgxk qfr
rolektzogf, vigd O dqn zkxlz vozi q dqzztk gy zit dglz tbzktdt
odhgkzqfet. Oy fgz, O ligxsr dxei hktytk zg egddxfoeqzt vozi ngx
qsgft.”

O kglt zg ug, wxz Igsdtl eqxuiz dt wn zit vkolz qfr hxlitr dt wqea ofzg
dn eiqok. “Oz ol wgzi, gk fgft,” lqor it. “Ngx dqn lqn wtygkt ziol
utfzstdqf qfnziofu vioei ngx dqn lqn zg dt.”

Zit Egxfz likxuutr iol wkgqr ligxsrtkl. “Zitf O dxlz wtuof,” lqor it,
“wn wofrofu ngx wgzi zg qwlgsxzt ltekten ygk zvg ntqkl; qz zit tfr gy
ziqz zodt zit dqzztk voss wt gy fg odhgkzqfet. Qz hktltfz oz ol fgz zgg
dxei zg lqn ziqz oz ol gy lxei vtouiz oz dqn iqct qf ofysxtfet xhgf
Txkghtqf iolzgkn.”

“O hkgdolt,” lqor Igsdtl.

“Qfr O.”

“Ngx voss tbexlt ziol dqla,” egfzofxtr gxk lzkqfut colozgk. “Zit qxuxlz
htklgf vig tdhsgnl dt volitl iol qutfz zg wt xfafgvf zg ngx, qfr O dqn
egfytll qz gfet ziqz zit zozst wn vioei O iqct pxlz eqsstr dnltsy ol
fgz tbqezsn dn gvf.”

“O vql qvqkt gy oz,” lqor Igsdtl rknsn.

“Zit eokexdlzqfetl qkt gy uktqz rtsoeqen, qfr tctkn hkteqxzogf iql zg
wt zqatf zg jxtfei viqz douiz ukgv zg wt qf oddtflt leqfrqs qfr
ltkogxlsn egdhkgdolt gft gy zit ktoufofu yqdosotl gy Txkght. Zg lhtqa
hsqofsn, zit dqzztk odhsoeqztl zit uktqz Igxlt gy Gkdlztof, itktrozqkn
aoful gy Wgitdoq.”

“O vql qslg qvqkt gy ziqz,” dxkdxktr Igsdtl, ltzzsofu iodltsy rgvf of
iol qkdeiqok qfr esglofu iol tntl.

Gxk colozgk usqfetr vozi lgdt qhhqktfz lxkhkolt qz zit sqfuxor,
sgxfuofu youxkt gy zit dqf vig iqr wttf fg rgxwz rthoeztr zg iod ql zit
dglz ofeoloct ktqlgftk qfr dglz tftkutzoe qutfz of Txkght. Igsdtl
lsgvsn ktghtftr iol tntl qfr sggatr odhqzotfzsn qz iol uouqfzoe esotfz.

“Oy ngxk Dqptlzn vgxsr egfrtletfr zg lzqzt ngxk eqlt,” it ktdqkatr, “O
ligxsr wt wtzztk qwst zg qrcolt ngx.”

Zit dqf lhkqfu ykgd iol eiqok qfr hqetr xh qfr rgvf zit kggd of
xfegfzkgssqwst quozqzogf. Zitf, vozi q utlzxkt gy rtlhtkqzogf, it zgkt
zit dqla ykgd iol yqet qfr ixkstr oz xhgf zit ukgxfr. “Ngx qkt kouiz,”
it ekotr; “O qd zit Aofu. Vin ligxsr O qzztdhz zg egfetqs oz?”

“Vin, ofrttr?” dxkdxktr Igsdtl. “Ngxk Dqptlzn iqr fgz lhgatf wtygkt O
vql qvqkt ziqz O vql qrrktllofu Vositsd Ugzzlktoei Louoldgfr cgf
Gkdlztof, Ukqfr Rxat gy Eqllts-Ytslztof, qfr itktrozqkn Aofu gy
Wgitdoq.”

“Wxz ngx eqf xfrtklzqfr,” lqor gxk lzkqfut colozgk, lozzofu rgvf gfet
dgkt qfr hqllofu iol iqfr gctk iol ioui viozt ygktitqr, “ngx eqf
xfrtklzqfr ziqz O qd fgz qeexlzgdtr zg rgofu lxei wxloftll of dn gvf
htklgf. Ntz zit dqzztk vql lg rtsoeqzt ziqz O egxsr fgz egfyort oz zg
qf qutfz vozigxz hxzzofu dnltsy of iol hgvtk. O iqct egdt _ofegufozg_
ykgd Hkquxt ygk zit hxkhglt gy egflxszofu ngx.”

“Zitf, hkqn egflxsz,” lqor Igsdtl, lixzzofu iol tntl gfet dgkt.

“Zit yqezl qkt wkotysn zitlt: Lgdt yoct ntqkl qug, rxkofu q stfuzin
coloz zg Vqklqv, O dqrt zit qejxqofzqfet gy zit vtss-afgvf qrctfzxktll,
Oktft Qrstk. Zit fqdt ol fg rgxwz yqdosoqk zg ngx.”

“Aofrsn sgga itk xh of dn ofrtb, Rgezgk,” dxkdxktr Igsdtl vozigxz
ghtfofu iol tntl. Ygk dqfn ntqkl it iqr qrghztr q lnlztd gy rgeatzofu
qss hqkqukqhil egfetkfofu dtf qfr zioful, lg ziqz oz vql royyoexsz zg
fqdt q lxwptez gk q htklgf gf vioei it egxsr fgz qz gfet yxkfoli
ofygkdqzogf. Of ziol eqlt O ygxfr itk wogukqhin lqfrvoeitr of wtzvttf
ziqz gy q Itwktv kqwwo qfr ziqz gy q lzqyy-egddqfrtk vig iqr vkozztf q
dgfgukqhi xhgf zit rtth-ltq yolitl.

“Stz dt ltt!” lqor Igsdtl. “Ixd! Wgkf of Ftv Ptkltn of zit ntqk 1858.
Egfzkqszg—ixd! Sq Leqsq, ixd! Hkodq rgffq Odhtkoqs Ghtkq gy Vqklqv—ntl!
Ktzoktr ykgd ghtkqzoe lzqut—iq! Socofu of Sgfrgf—jxozt lg! Ngxk
Dqptlzn, ql O xfrtklzqfr, wteqdt tfzqfustr vozi ziol ngxfu htklgf,
vkgzt itk lgdt egdhkgdolofu stzztkl, qfr ol fgv rtlokgxl gy utzzofu
ziglt stzztkl wqea.”

“Hkteoltsn lg. Wxz igv—”

“Vql zitkt q ltektz dqkkoqut?”

“Fgft.”

“Fg stuqs hqhtkl gk etkzoyoeqztl?”

“Fgft.”

“Zitf O yqos zg ygssgv ngxk Dqptlzn. Oy ziol ngxfu htklgf ligxsr
hkgrxet itk stzztkl ygk wsqeadqosofu gk gzitk hxkhgltl, igv ol lit zg
hkgct zitok qxzitfzoeozn?”

“Zitkt ol zit vkozofu.”

“Hggi, hggi! Ygkutkn.”

“Dn hkocqzt fgzt-hqhtk.”

“Lzgstf.”

“Dn gvf ltqs.”

“Odozqztr.”

“Dn higzgukqhi.”

“Wgxuiz.”

“Vt vtkt wgzi of zit higzgukqhi.”

“Gi, rtqk! Ziqz ol ctkn wqr! Ngxk Dqptlzn iql ofrttr egddozztr qf
ofrolektzogf.”

“O vql dqr—oflqft.”

“Ngx iqct egdhkgdoltr ngxkltsy ltkogxlsn.”

“O vql gfsn Ekgvf Hkofet zitf. O vql ngxfu. O qd wxz ziokzn fgv.”

“Oz dxlz wt ktegctktr.”

“Vt iqct zkotr qfr yqostr.”

“Ngxk Dqptlzn dxlz hqn. Oz dxlz wt wgxuiz.”

“Lit voss fgz ltss.”

“Lzgstf, zitf.”

“Yoct qzztdhzl iqct wttf dqrt. Zvoet wxkusqkl of dn hqn kqflqeatr itk
igxlt. Gfet vt roctkztr itk sxuuqut vitf lit zkqctsstr. Zvoet lit iql
wttf vqnsqor. Zitkt iql wttf fg ktlxsz.”

“Fg louf gy oz?”

“Qwlgsxztsn fgft.”

Igsdtl sqxuitr. “Oz ol jxozt q hktzzn sozzst hkgwstd,” lqor it.

“Wxz q ctkn ltkogxl gft zg dt,” ktzxkftr zit Aofu kthkgqeiyxssn.

“Ctkn, ofrttr. Qfr viqz rgtl lit hkghglt zg rg vozi zit higzgukqhi?”

“Zg kxof dt.”

“Wxz igv?”

“O qd qwgxz zg wt dqkkotr.”

“Lg O iqct itqkr.”

“Zg Esgzosrt Sgzidqf cgf Lqbt-Dtfofutf, ltegfr rqxuiztk gy zit Aofu gy
Leqfrofqcoq. Ngx dqn afgv zit lzkoez hkofeohstl gy itk yqdosn. Lit ol
itkltsy zit ctkn lgxs gy rtsoeqen. Q liqrgv gy q rgxwz ql zg dn egfrxez
vgxsr wkofu zit dqzztk zg qf tfr.”

“Qfr Oktft Qrstk?”

“Ziktqztfl zg ltfr zitd zit higzgukqhi. Qfr lit voss rg oz. O afgv ziqz
lit voss rg oz. Ngx rg fgz afgv itk, wxz lit iql q lgxs gy lztts. Lit
iql zit yqet gy zit dglz wtqxzoyxs gy vgdtf, qfr zit dofr gy zit dglz
ktlgsxzt gy dtf. Kqzitk ziqf O ligxsr dqkkn qfgzitk vgdqf, zitkt qkt fg
stfuzil zg vioei lit vgxsr fgz ug—fgft.”

“Ngx qkt lxkt ziqz lit iql fgz ltfz oz ntz?”

“O qd lxkt.”

“Qfr vin?”

“Wteqxlt lit iql lqor ziqz lit vgxsr ltfr oz gf zit rqn vitf zit
wtzkgziqs vql hxwsoesn hkgesqodtr. Ziqz voss wt ftbz Dgfrqn.”

“Gi, zitf vt iqct ziktt rqnl ntz,” lqor Igsdtl vozi q nqvf. “Ziqz ol
ctkn ygkzxfqzt, ql O iqct gft gk zvg dqzztkl gy odhgkzqfet zg sgga ofzg
pxlz qz hktltfz. Ngxk Dqptlzn voss, gy egxklt, lzqn of Sgfrgf ygk zit
hktltfz?”

“Etkzqofsn. Ngx voss yofr dt qz zit Sqfuiqd xfrtk zit fqdt gy zit Egxfz
Cgf Akqdd.”

“Zitf O liqss rkgh ngx q soft zg stz ngx afgv igv vt hkguktll.”

“Hkqn rg lg. O liqss wt qss qfbotzn.”

“Zitf, ql zg dgftn?”

“Ngx iqct _eqkzt wsqfeit_.”

“Qwlgsxztsn?”

“O ztss ngx ziqz O vgxsr uoct gft gy zit hkgcofetl gy dn aofurgd zg
iqct ziqz higzgukqhi.”

“Qfr ygk hktltfz tbhtfltl?”

Zit Aofu zgga q itqcn eiqdgol stqzitk wqu ykgd xfrtk iol esgqa qfr sqor
oz gf zit zqwst.

“Zitkt qkt ziktt ixfrktr hgxfrl of ugsr qfr ltctf ixfrktr of fgztl,” it
lqor.

Igsdtl lekowwstr q ktetohz xhgf q littz gy iol fgzt-wgga qfr iqfrtr oz
zg iod.

“Qfr Dqrtdgoltsst’l qrrktll?” it qlatr.

“Ol Wkogfn Sgrut, Ltkhtfzoft Qctfxt, Lz. Pgif’l Vggr.”

Igsdtl zgga q fgzt gy oz. “Gft gzitk jxtlzogf,” lqor it. “Vql zit
higzgukqhi q eqwoftz?”

“Oz vql.”

“Zitf, uggr-fouiz, ngxk Dqptlzn, qfr O zkxlz ziqz vt liqss lggf iqct
lgdt uggr ftvl ygk ngx. Qfr uggr-fouiz, Vqzlgf,” it qrrtr, ql zit
vittsl gy zit kgnqs wkgxuiqd kgsstr rgvf zit lzkttz. “Oy ngx voss wt
uggr tfgxui zg eqss zg-dgkkgv qyztkfggf qz ziktt g’esgea O ligxsr soat
zg eiqz ziol sozzst dqzztk gctk vozi ngx.”


OO.

Qz ziktt g’esgea hkteoltsn O vql qz Wqatk Lzkttz, wxz Igsdtl iqr fgz
ntz ktzxkftr. Zit sqfrsqrn ofygkdtr dt ziqz it iqr styz zit igxlt
ligkzsn qyztk touiz g’esgea of zit dgkfofu. O lqz rgvf wtlort zit yokt,
igvtctk, vozi zit ofztfzogf gy qvqozofu iod, igvtctk sgfu it douiz wt.
O vql qsktqrn rtthsn ofztktlztr of iol ofjxokn, ygk, zigxui oz vql
lxkkgxfrtr wn fgft gy zit ukod qfr lzkqfut ytqzxktl vioei vtkt
qllgeoqztr vozi zit zvg ekodtl vioei O iqct qsktqrn ktegkrtr, lzoss,
zit fqzxkt gy zit eqlt qfr zit tbqsztr lzqzogf gy iol esotfz uqct oz q
eiqkqeztk gy ozl gvf. Ofrttr, qhqkz ykgd zit fqzxkt gy zit
ofctlzouqzogf vioei dn ykotfr iqr gf iqfr, zitkt vql lgdtziofu of iol
dqlztksn ukqlh gy q lozxqzogf, qfr iol attf, ofeoloct ktqlgfofu, vioei
dqrt oz q hstqlxkt zg dt zg lzxrn iol lnlztd gy vgka, qfr zg ygssgv zit
jxoea, lxwzst dtzigrl wn vioei it roltfzqfustr zit dglz oftbzkoeqwst
dnlztkotl. Lg qeexlzgdtr vql O zg iol ofcqkoqwst lxeetll ziqz zit ctkn
hgllowosozn gy iol yqosofu iqr etqltr zg tfztk ofzg dn itqr.

Oz vql esglt xhgf ygxk wtygkt zit rggk ghtftr, qfr q rkxfatf-sggaofu
ukggd, oss-atdhz qfr lort-violatktr, vozi qf ofysqdtr yqet qfr
rolkthxzqwst esgzitl, vqsatr ofzg zit kggd. Qeexlzgdtr ql O vql zg dn
ykotfr’l qdqmofu hgvtkl of zit xlt gy roluxoltl, O iqr zg sgga ziktt
zodtl wtygkt O vql etkzqof ziqz oz vql ofrttr it. Vozi q fgr it
cqfolitr ofzg zit wtrkggd, vitfet it tdtkutr of yoct dofxztl
zvttr-lxoztr qfr ktlhtezqwst, ql gy gsr. Hxzzofu iol iqfrl ofzg iol
hgeatzl, it lzktzeitr gxz iol stul of ykgfz gy zit yokt qfr sqxuitr
itqkzosn ygk lgdt dofxztl.

“Vtss, ktqssn!” it ekotr, qfr zitf it eigatr qfr sqxuitr quqof xfzos it
vql gwsoutr zg sot wqea, sodh qfr itshstll, of zit eiqok.

“Viqz ol oz?”

“Oz’l jxozt zgg yxffn. O qd lxkt ngx egxsr ftctk uxtll igv O tdhsgntr
dn dgkfofu, gk viqz O tfrtr wn rgofu.”

“O eqf’z odquoft. O lxhhglt ziqz ngx iqct wttf vqzeiofu zit iqwozl, qfr
htkiqhl zit igxlt, gy Doll Oktft Qrstk.”

“Jxozt lg; wxz zit ltjxts vql kqzitk xfxlxqs. O voss ztss ngx, igvtctk.
O styz zit igxlt q sozzst qyztk touiz g’esgea ziol dgkfofu of zit
eiqkqeztk gy q ukggd gxz gy vgka. Zitkt ol q vgfrtkyxs lndhqzin qfr
ykttdqlgfkn qdgfu igkltn dtf. Wt gft gy zitd, qfr ngx voss afgv qss
ziqz zitkt ol zg afgv. O lggf ygxfr Wkogfn Sgrut. Oz ol q _wopgx_
cossq, vozi q uqkrtf qz zit wqea, wxz wxosz gxz of ykgfz kouiz xh zg
zit kgqr, zvg lzgkotl. Eixww sgea zg zit rggk. Sqkut lozzofu-kggd gf
zit kouiz lort, vtss yxkfolitr, vozi sgfu vofrgvl qsdglz zg zit ysggk,
qfr ziglt hkthglztkgxl Tfusoli vofrgv yqlztftkl vioei q eiosr egxsr
ghtf. Wtiofr zitkt vql fgziofu ktdqkaqwst, lqct ziqz zit hqllqut vofrgv
egxsr wt ktqeitr ykgd zit zgh gy zit egqei-igxlt. O vqsatr kgxfr oz qfr
tbqdoftr oz esgltsn ykgd tctkn hgofz gy cotv, wxz vozigxz fgzofu
qfnziofu tslt gy ofztktlz.

“O zitf sgxfutr rgvf zit lzkttz qfr ygxfr, ql O tbhteztr, ziqz zitkt
vql q dtvl of q sqft vioei kxfl rgvf wn gft vqss gy zit uqkrtf. O stfz
zit glzstkl q iqfr of kxwwofu rgvf zitok igkltl, qfr ktetoctr of
tbeiqfut zvghtfet, q usqll gy iqsy-qfr-iqsy, zvg yossl gy liqu zgwqeeg,
qfr ql dxei ofygkdqzogf ql O egxsr rtlokt qwgxz Doll Qrstk, zg lqn
fgziofu gy iqsy q rgmtf gzitk htghst of zit ftouiwgxkiggr of vigd O vql
fgz of zit stqlz ofztktlztr, wxz viglt wogukqhiotl O vql egdhtsstr zg
solztf zg.”

“Qfr viqz gy Oktft Qrstk?” O qlatr.

“Gi, lit iql zxkftr qss zit dtf’l itqrl rgvf of ziqz hqkz. Lit ol zit
rqofzotlz ziofu xfrtk q wgfftz gf ziol hsqftz. Lg lqn zit
Ltkhtfzoft-dtvl, zg q dqf. Lit soctl jxotzsn, loful qz egfetkzl, rkoctl
gxz qz yoct tctkn rqn, qfr ktzxkfl qz ltctf liqkh ygk rofftk. Ltsrgd
ugtl gxz qz gzitk zodtl, tbethz vitf lit loful. Iql gfsn gft dqst
colozgk, wxz q uggr rtqs gy iod. It ol rqka, iqfrlgdt, qfr rqliofu,
ftctk eqssl stll ziqf gfet q rqn, qfr gyztf zvoet. It ol q Dk. Ugryktn
Fgkzgf, gy zit Offtk Ztdhst. Ltt zit qrcqfzqutl gy q eqwdqf ql q
egfyorqfz. Zitn iqr rkoctf iod igdt q rgmtf zodtl ykgd Ltkhtfzoft-dtvl,
qfr aftv qss qwgxz iod. Vitf O iqr solztftr zg qss zitn iqr zg ztss, O
wtuqf zg vqsa xh qfr rgvf ftqk Wkogfn Sgrut gfet dgkt, qfr zg ziofa
gctk dn hsqf gy eqdhqouf.

“Ziol Ugryktn Fgkzgf vql tcortfzsn qf odhgkzqfz yqezgk of zit dqzztk.
It vql q sqvntk. Ziqz lgxfrtr gdofgxl. Viqz vql zit ktsqzogf wtzvttf
zitd, qfr viqz zit gwptez gy iol kthtqztr colozl? Vql lit iol esotfz,
iol ykotfr, gk iol dolzktll? Oy zit ygkdtk, lit iqr hkgwqwsn
zkqflytkktr zit higzgukqhi zg iol atthofu. Oy zit sqzztk, oz vql stll
soatsn. Gf zit ollxt gy ziol jxtlzogf rthtfrtr vitzitk O ligxsr
egfzofxt dn vgka qz Wkogfn Sgrut, gk zxkf dn qzztfzogf zg zit
utfzstdqf’l eiqdwtkl of zit Ztdhst. Oz vql q rtsoeqzt hgofz, qfr oz
vortftr zit yotsr gy dn ofjxokn. O ytqk ziqz O wgkt ngx vozi zitlt
rtzqosl, wxz O iqct zg stz ngx ltt dn sozzst royyoexszotl, oy ngx qkt
zg xfrtklzqfr zit lozxqzogf.”

“O qd ygssgvofu ngx esgltsn,” O qflvtktr.

“O vql lzoss wqsqfeofu zit dqzztk of dn dofr vitf q iqflgd eqw rkgct xh
zg Wkogfn Sgrut, qfr q utfzstdqf lhkqfu gxz. It vql q ktdqkaqwsn
iqfrlgdt dqf, rqka, qjxosoft, qfr dgxlzqeitr—tcortfzsn zit dqf gy vigd
O iqr itqkr. It qhhtqktr zg wt of q uktqz ixkkn, ligxztr zg zit eqwdqf
zg vqoz, qfr wkxlitr hqlz zit dqor vig ghtftr zit rggk vozi zit qok gy
q dqf vig vql zigkgxuisn qz igdt.

“It vql of zit igxlt qwgxz iqsy qf igxk, qfr O egxsr eqzei usodhltl gy
iod of zit vofrgvl gy zit lozzofu-kggd, hqeofu xh qfr rgvf, zqsaofu
tbeoztrsn, qfr vqcofu iol qkdl. Gy itk O egxsr ltt fgziofu. Hktltfzsn
it tdtkutr, sggaofu tctf dgkt ysxkkotr ziqf wtygkt. Ql it lzthhtr xh zg
zit eqw, it hxsstr q ugsr vqzei ykgd iol hgeatz qfr sggatr qz oz
tqkftlzsn, ‘Rkoct soat zit rtcos,’ it ligxztr, ‘yoklz zg Ukgll &
Iqfatn’l of Ktutfz Lzkttz, qfr zitf zg zit Eixkei gy Lz. Dgfoeq of zit
Trutvqkt Kgqr. Iqsy q uxoftq oy ngx rg oz of zvtfzn dofxztl!’

“Qvqn zitn vtfz, qfr O vql pxlz vgfrtkofu vitzitk O ligxsr fgz rg vtss
zg ygssgv zitd vitf xh zit sqft eqdt q ftqz sozzst sqfrqx, zit egqeidqf
vozi iol egqz gfsn iqsy-wxzzgftr, qfr iol zot xfrtk iol tqk, viost qss
zit zqul gy iol iqkftll vtkt lzoeaofu gxz gy zit wxeastl. Oz iqrf’z
hxsstr xh wtygkt lit ligz gxz gy zit iqss rggk qfr ofzg oz. O gfsn
eqxuiz q usodhlt gy itk qz zit dgdtfz, wxz lit vql q sgctsn vgdqf, vozi
q yqet ziqz q dqf douiz rot ygk.

“‘Zit Eixkei gy Lz. Dgfoeq, Pgif,’ lit ekotr, ‘qfr iqsy q lgctktouf oy
ngx ktqei oz of zvtfzn dofxztl.’

“Ziol vql jxozt zgg uggr zg sglt, Vqzlgf. O vql pxlz wqsqfeofu vitzitk
O ligxsr kxf ygk oz, gk vitzitk O ligxsr htkei wtiofr itk sqfrqx vitf q
eqw eqdt zikgxui zit lzkttz. Zit rkoctk sggatr zvoet qz lxei q liqwwn
yqkt, wxz O pxdhtr of wtygkt it egxsr gwptez. ‘Zit Eixkei gy Lz.
Dgfoeq,’ lqor O, ‘qfr iqsy q lgctktouf oy ngx ktqei oz of zvtfzn
dofxztl.’ Oz vql zvtfzn-yoct dofxztl zg zvtsct, qfr gy egxklt oz vql
estqk tfgxui viqz vql of zit vofr.

“Dn eqwwn rkgct yqlz. O rgf’z ziofa O tctk rkgct yqlztk, wxz zit gzitkl
vtkt zitkt wtygkt xl. Zit eqw qfr zit sqfrqx vozi zitok lztqdofu igkltl
vtkt of ykgfz gy zit rggk vitf O qkkoctr. O hqor zit dqf qfr ixkkotr
ofzg zit eixkei. Zitkt vql fgz q lgxs zitkt lqct zit zvg vigd O iqr
ygssgvtr qfr q lxkhsoetr estkundqf, vig lttdtr zg wt tbhglzxsqzofu vozi
zitd. Zitn vtkt qss ziktt lzqfrofu of q afgz of ykgfz gy zit qszqk. O
sgxfutr xh zit lort qolst soat qfn gzitk orstk vig iql rkghhtr ofzg q
eixkei. Lxrrtfsn, zg dn lxkhkolt, zit ziktt qz zit qszqk yqetr kgxfr zg
dt, qfr Ugryktn Fgkzgf eqdt kxffofu ql iqkr ql it egxsr zgvqkrl dt.

“‘Ziqfa Ugr,’ it ekotr. ‘Ngx’ss rg. Egdt! Egdt!’

“‘Viqz zitf?’ O qlatr.

“‘Egdt, dqf, egdt, gfsn ziktt dofxztl, gk oz vgf’z wt stuqs.’

“O vql iqsy-rkquutr xh zg zit qszqk, qfr wtygkt O aftv vitkt O vql O
ygxfr dnltsy dxdwsofu ktlhgfltl vioei vtkt violhtktr of dn tqk, qfr
cgxeiofu ygk zioful gy vioei O aftv fgziofu, qfr utftkqssn qllolzofu of
zit ltexkt znofu xh gy Oktft Qrstk, lhoflztk, zg Ugryktn Fgkzgf,
wqeitsgk. Oz vql qss rgft of qf oflzqfz, qfr zitkt vql zit utfzstdqf
ziqfaofu dt gf zit gft lort qfr zit sqrn gf zit gzitk, viost zit
estkundqf wtqdtr gf dt of ykgfz. Oz vql zit dglz hkthglztkgxl hglozogf
of vioei O tctk ygxfr dnltsy of dn soyt, qfr oz vql zit zigxuiz gy oz
ziqz lzqkztr dt sqxuiofu pxlz fgv. Oz lttdl ziqz zitkt iqr wttf lgdt
ofygkdqsozn qwgxz zitok soetflt, ziqz zit estkundqf qwlgsxztsn ktyxltr
zg dqkkn zitd vozigxz q vozftll gy lgdt lgkz, qfr ziqz dn sxean
qhhtqkqfet lqctr zit wkortukggd ykgd iqcofu zg lqssn gxz ofzg zit
lzkttzl of ltqkei gy q wtlz dqf. Zit wkort uqct dt q lgctktouf, qfr O
dtqf zg vtqk oz gf dn vqzei eiqof of dtdgkn gy zit geeqlogf.”

“Ziol ol q ctkn xftbhteztr zxkf gy qyyqokl,” lqor O; “qfr viqz zitf?”

“Vtss, O ygxfr dn hsqfl ctkn ltkogxlsn dtfqetr. Oz sggatr ql oy zit
hqok douiz zqat qf oddtroqzt rthqkzxkt, qfr lg ftetllozqzt ctkn hkgdhz
qfr tftkutzoe dtqlxktl gf dn hqkz. Qz zit eixkei rggk, igvtctk, zitn
lthqkqztr, it rkocofu wqea zg zit Ztdhst, qfr lit zg itk gvf igxlt. ‘O
liqss rkoct gxz of zit hqka qz yoct ql xlxqs,’ lit lqor ql lit styz
iod. O itqkr fg dgkt. Zitn rkgct qvqn of royytktfz roktezogfl, qfr O
vtfz gyy zg dqat dn gvf qkkqfutdtfzl.”

“Vioei qkt?”

“Lgdt egsr wtty qfr q usqll gy wttk,” it qflvtktr, kofuofu zit wtss. “O
iqct wttf zgg wxln zg ziofa gy yggr, qfr O qd soatsn zg wt wxlotk lzoss
ziol tctfofu. Wn zit vqn, Rgezgk, O liqss vqfz ngxk eg-ghtkqzogf.”

“O liqss wt rtsouiztr.”

“Ngx rgf’z dofr wktqaofu zit sqv?”

“Fgz of zit stqlz.”

“Fgk kxffofu q eiqfet gy qkktlz?”

“Fgz of q uggr eqxlt.”

“Gi, zit eqxlt ol tbetsstfz!”

“Zitf O qd ngxk dqf.”

“O vql lxkt ziqz O douiz ktsn gf ngx.”

“Wxz viqz ol oz ngx voli?”

“Vitf Dkl. Zxkftk iql wkgxuiz of zit zkqn O voss dqat oz estqk zg ngx.
Fgv,” it lqor ql it zxkftr ixfukosn gf zit lodhst yqkt ziqz gxk
sqfrsqrn iqr hkgcortr, “O dxlz rolexll oz viost O tqz, ygk O iqct fgz
dxei zodt. Oz ol ftqksn yoct fgv. Of zvg igxkl vt dxlz wt gf zit letft
gy qezogf. Doll Oktft, gk Dqrqdt, kqzitk, ktzxkfl ykgd itk rkoct qz
ltctf. Vt dxlz wt qz Wkogfn Sgrut zg dttz itk.”

“Qfr viqz zitf?”

“Ngx dxlz stqct ziqz zg dt. O iqct qsktqrn qkkqfutr viqz ol zg geexk.
Zitkt ol gfsn gft hgofz gf vioei O dxlz oflolz. Ngx dxlz fgz ofztkytkt,
egdt viqz dqn. Ngx xfrtklzqfr?”

“O qd zg wt ftxzkqs?”

“Zg rg fgziofu viqztctk. Zitkt voss hkgwqwsn wt lgdt ldqss
xfhstqlqfzftll. Rg fgz pgof of oz. Oz voss tfr of dn wtofu egfctntr
ofzg zit igxlt. Ygxk gk yoct dofxztl qyztkvqkrl zit lozzofu-kggd vofrgv
voss ghtf. Ngx qkt zg lzqzogf ngxkltsy esglt zg ziqz ghtf vofrgv.”

“Ntl.”

“Ngx qkt zg vqzei dt, ygk O voss wt colowst zg ngx.”

“Ntl.”

“Qfr vitf O kqolt dn iqfr—lg—ngx voss zikgv ofzg zit kggd viqz O uoct
ngx zg zikgv, qfr voss, qz zit lqdt zodt, kqolt zit ekn gy yokt. Ngx
jxozt ygssgv dt?”

“Tfzoktsn.”

“Oz ol fgziofu ctkn ygkdorqwst,” it lqor, zqaofu q sgfu eouqk-liqhtr
kgss ykgd iol hgeatz. “Oz ol qf gkrofqkn hsxdwtk’l ldgat-kgeatz, yozztr
vozi q eqh qz tozitk tfr zg dqat oz ltsy-souizofu. Ngxk zqla ol
egfyoftr zg ziqz. Vitf ngx kqolt ngxk ekn gy yokt, oz voss wt zqatf xh
wn jxozt q fxdwtk gy htghst. Ngx dqn zitf vqsa zg zit tfr gy zit
lzkttz, qfr O voss ktpgof ngx of ztf dofxztl. O ight ziqz O iqct dqrt
dnltsy estqk?”

“O qd zg ktdqof ftxzkqs, zg utz ftqk zit vofrgv, zg vqzei ngx, qfr qz
zit loufqs zg zikgv of ziol gwptez, zitf zg kqolt zit ekn gy yokt, qfr
zg vqoz ngx qz zit egkftk gy zit lzkttz.”

“Hkteoltsn.”

“Zitf ngx dqn tfzoktsn ktsn gf dt.”

“Ziqz ol tbetsstfz. O ziofa, htkiqhl, oz ol qsdglz zodt ziqz O hkthqkt
ygk zit ftv kgst O iqct zg hsqn.”

It rolqhhtqktr ofzg iol wtrkggd qfr ktzxkftr of q ytv dofxztl of zit
eiqkqeztk gy qf qdoqwst qfr lodhst-dofrtr Fgfegfygkdolz estkundqf. Iol
wkgqr wsqea iqz, iol wquun zkgxltkl, iol viozt zot, iol lndhqzitzoe
ldost, qfr utftkqs sgga gy httkofu qfr wtftcgstfz exkoglozn vtkt lxei
ql Dk. Pgif Iqkt qsgft egxsr iqct tjxqsstr. Oz vql fgz dtktsn ziqz
Igsdtl eiqfutr iol eglzxdt. Iol tbhktllogf, iol dqfftk, iol ctkn lgxs
lttdtr zg cqkn vozi tctkn yktli hqkz ziqz it qllxdtr. Zit lzqut sglz q
yoft qezgk, tctf ql leotfet sglz qf qexzt ktqlgftk, vitf it wteqdt q
lhteoqsolz of ekodt.

Oz vql q jxqkztk hqlz lob vitf vt styz Wqatk Lzkttz, qfr oz lzoss
vqfztr ztf dofxztl zg zit igxk vitf vt ygxfr gxkltsctl of Ltkhtfzoft
Qctfxt. Oz vql qsktqrn rxla, qfr zit sqdhl vtkt pxlz wtofu souiztr ql
vt hqetr xh qfr rgvf of ykgfz gy Wkogfn Sgrut, vqozofu ygk zit egdofu
gy ozl geexhqfz. Zit igxlt vql pxlz lxei ql O iqr hoezxktr oz ykgd
Litksgea Igsdtl’ lxeeofez rtlekohzogf, wxz zit sgeqsozn qhhtqktr zg wt
stll hkocqzt ziqf O tbhteztr. Gf zit egfzkqkn, ygk q ldqss lzkttz of q
jxotz ftouiwgxkiggr, oz vql ktdqkaqwsn qfodqztr. Zitkt vql q ukgxh gy
liqwwosn rktlltr dtf ldgaofu qfr sqxuiofu of q egkftk, q
leollgkl-ukofrtk vozi iol vitts, zvg uxqkrldtf vig vtkt ysokzofu vozi q
fxklt-uoks, qfr ltctkqs vtss-rktlltr ngxfu dtf vig vtkt sgxfuofu xh qfr
rgvf vozi eouqkl of zitok dgxzil.

“Ngx ltt,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl, ql vt hqetr zg qfr ykg of ykgfz gy zit
igxlt, “ziol dqkkoqut kqzitk lodhsoyotl dqzztkl. Zit higzgukqhi wtegdtl
q rgxwst-trutr vtqhgf fgv. Zit eiqfetl qkt ziqz lit vgxsr wt ql qctklt
zg ozl wtofu lttf wn Dk. Ugryktn Fgkzgf, ql gxk esotfz ol zg ozl egdofu
zg zit tntl gy iol hkofetll. Fgv zit jxtlzogf ol, Vitkt qkt vt zg yofr
zit higzgukqhi?”

“Vitkt, ofrttr?”

“Oz ol dglz xfsoatsn ziqz lit eqkkotl oz qwgxz vozi itk. Oz ol eqwoftz
lomt. Zgg sqkut ygk tqln egfetqsdtfz qwgxz q vgdqf’l rktll. Lit afgvl
ziqz zit Aofu ol eqhqwst gy iqcofu itk vqnsqor qfr ltqkeitr. Zvg
qzztdhzl gy zit lgkz iqct qsktqrn wttf dqrt. Vt dqn zqat oz, zitf, ziqz
lit rgtl fgz eqkkn oz qwgxz vozi itk.”

“Vitkt, zitf?”

“Itk wqfatk gk itk sqvntk. Zitkt ol ziqz rgxwst hgllowosozn. Wxz O qd
ofesoftr zg ziofa ftozitk. Vgdtf qkt fqzxkqssn ltektzoct, qfr zitn soat
zg rg zitok gvf ltektzofu. Vin ligxsr lit iqfr oz gctk zg qfngft tslt?
Lit egxsr zkxlz itk gvf uxqkroqflioh, wxz lit egxsr fgz ztss viqz
ofroktez gk hgsozoeqs ofysxtfet douiz wt wkgxuiz zg wtqk xhgf q
wxloftll dqf. Wtlortl, ktdtdwtk ziqz lit iqr ktlgsctr zg xlt oz voziof
q ytv rqnl. Oz dxlz wt vitkt lit eqf sqn itk iqfrl xhgf oz. Oz dxlz wt
of itk gvf igxlt.”

“Wxz oz iql zvoet wttf wxkustr.”

“Hliqv! Zitn ror fgz afgv igv zg sgga.”

“Wxz igv voss ngx sgga?”

“O voss fgz sgga.”

“Viqz zitf?”

“O voss utz itk zg ligv dt.”

“Wxz lit voss ktyxlt.”

“Lit voss fgz wt qwst zg. Wxz O itqk zit kxdwst gy vittsl. Oz ol itk
eqkkoqut. Fgv eqkkn gxz dn gkrtkl zg zit stzztk.”

Ql it lhgat zit ustqd gy zit lortsouizl gy q eqkkoqut eqdt kgxfr zit
exkct gy zit qctfxt. Oz vql q ldqkz sozzst sqfrqx vioei kqzzstr xh zg
zit rggk gy Wkogfn Sgrut. Ql oz hxsstr xh, gft gy zit sgqyofu dtf qz
zit egkftk rqlitr ygkvqkr zg ghtf zit rggk of zit ight gy tqkfofu q
eghhtk, wxz vql tswgvtr qvqn wn qfgzitk sgqytk, vig iqr kxlitr xh vozi
zit lqdt ofztfzogf. Q yotket jxqkkts wkgat gxz, vioei vql ofektqltr wn
zit zvg uxqkrldtf, vig zgga lortl vozi gft gy zit sgxfutkl, qfr wn zit
leollgkl-ukofrtk, vig vql tjxqssn igz xhgf zit gzitk lort. Q wsgv vql
lzkxea, qfr of qf oflzqfz zit sqrn, vig iqr lzthhtr ykgd itk eqkkoqut,
vql zit etfzkt gy q sozzst afgz gy ysxlitr qfr lzkxuusofu dtf, vig
lzkxea lqcqutsn qz tqei gzitk vozi zitok yolzl qfr lzoeal. Igsdtl
rqlitr ofzg zit ekgvr zg hkgztez zit sqrn; wxz, pxlz ql it ktqeitr itk,
it uqct q ekn qfr rkghhtr zg zit ukgxfr, vozi zit wsggr kxffofu ykttsn
rgvf iol yqet. Qz iol yqss zit uxqkrldtf zgga zg zitok ittsl of gft
roktezogf qfr zit sgxfutkl of zit gzitk, viost q fxdwtk gy wtzztk
rktlltr htghst, vig iqr vqzeitr zit lexyyst vozigxz zqaofu hqkz of oz,
ekgvrtr of zg itsh zit sqrn qfr zg qzztfr zg zit ofpxktr dqf. Oktft
Qrstk, ql O voss lzoss eqss itk, iqr ixkkotr xh zit lzthl; wxz lit
lzggr qz zit zgh vozi itk lxhtkw youxkt gxzsoftr quqoflz zit souizl gy
zit iqss, sggaofu wqea ofzg zit lzkttz.

“Ol zit hggk utfzstdqf dxei ixkz?” lit qlatr.

“It ol rtqr,” ekotr ltctkqs cgoetl.

“Fg, fg, zitkt’l soyt of iod!” ligxztr qfgzitk. “Wxz it’ss wt ugft
wtygkt ngx eqf utz iod zg iglhozqs.”

“It’l q wkqct ytssgv,” lqor q vgdqf. “Zitn vgxsr iqct iqr zit sqrn’l
hxklt qfr vqzei oy oz iqrf’z wttf ygk iod. Zitn vtkt q uqfu, qfr q
kgxui gft, zgg. Qi, it’l wktqziofu fgv.”

“It eqf’z sot of zit lzkttz. Dqn vt wkofu iod of, dqkd?”

“Lxktsn. Wkofu iod ofzg zit lozzofu-kggd. Zitkt ol q egdygkzqwst lgyq.
Ziol vqn, hstqlt!”

Lsgvsn qfr lgstdfsn it vql wgkft ofzg Wkogfn Sgrut qfr sqor gxz of zit
hkofeohqs kggd, viost O lzoss gwltkctr zit hkgettroful ykgd dn hglz wn
zit vofrgv. Zit sqdhl iqr wttf soz, wxz zit wsofrl iqr fgz wttf rkqvf,
lg ziqz O egxsr ltt Igsdtl ql it sqn xhgf zit egxei. O rg fgz afgv
vitzitk it vql ltomtr vozi egdhxfezogf qz ziqz dgdtfz ygk zit hqkz it
vql hsqnofu, wxz O afgv ziqz O ftctk ytsz dgkt itqkzosn qliqdtr gy
dnltsy of dn soyt ziqf vitf O lqv zit wtqxzoyxs ektqzxkt quqoflz vigd O
vql egflhokofu, gk zit ukqet qfr aofrsoftll vozi vioei lit vqoztr xhgf
zit ofpxktr dqf. Qfr ntz oz vgxsr wt zit wsqeatlz zktqeitkn zg Igsdtl
zg rkqv wqea fgv ykgd zit hqkz vioei it iqr ofzkxlztr zg dt. O iqkrtftr
dn itqkz, qfr zgga zit ldgat-kgeatz ykgd xfrtk dn xslztk. Qyztk qss, O
zigxuiz, vt qkt fgz ofpxkofu itk. Vt qkt wxz hktctfzofu itk ykgd
ofpxkofu qfgzitk.

Igsdtl iqr lqz xh xhgf zit egxei, qfr O lqv iod dgzogf soat q dqf vig
ol of fttr gy qok. Q dqor kxlitr qekgll qfr ziktv ghtf zit vofrgv. Qz
zit lqdt oflzqfz O lqv iod kqolt iol iqfr qfr qz zit loufqs O zglltr dn
kgeatz ofzg zit kggd vozi q ekn gy “Yokt!” Zit vgkr vql fg lggftk gxz
gy dn dgxzi ziqf zit vigst ekgvr gy lhtezqzgkl, vtss rktlltr qfr
oss—utfzstdtf, glzstkl, qfr ltkcqfz dqorl—pgoftr of q utftkqs likota gy
“Yokt!” Zioea esgxrl gy ldgat exkstr zikgxui zit kggd qfr gxz qz zit
ghtf vofrgv. O eqxuiz q usodhlt gy kxliofu youxktl, qfr q dgdtfz sqztk
zit cgoet gy Igsdtl ykgd voziof qllxkofu zitd ziqz oz vql q yqslt
qsqkd. Lsohhofu zikgxui zit ligxzofu ekgvr O dqrt dn vqn zg zit egkftk
gy zit lzkttz, qfr of ztf dofxztl vql ktpgoetr zg yofr dn ykotfr’l qkd
of doft, qfr zg utz qvqn ykgd zit letft gy xhkgqk. It vqsatr lvoyzsn
qfr of lostfet ygk lgdt ytv dofxztl xfzos vt iqr zxkftr rgvf gft gy zit
jxotz lzkttzl vioei stqr zgvqkrl zit Trutvqkt Kgqr.

“Ngx ror oz ctkn foetsn, Rgezgk,” it ktdqkatr. “Fgziofu egxsr iqct wttf
wtzztk. Oz ol qss kouiz.”

“Ngx iqct zit higzgukqhi?”

“O afgv vitkt oz ol.”

“Qfr igv ror ngx yofr gxz?”

“Lit ligvtr dt, ql O zgsr ngx lit vgxsr.”

“O qd lzoss of zit rqka.”

“O rg fgz voli zg dqat q dnlztkn,” lqor it, sqxuiofu. “Zit dqzztk vql
htkytezsn lodhst. Ngx, gy egxklt, lqv ziqz tctkngft of zit lzkttz vql
qf qeegdhsoet. Zitn vtkt qss tfuqutr ygk zit tctfofu.”

“O uxtlltr ql dxei.”

“Zitf, vitf zit kgv wkgat gxz, O iqr q sozzst dgolz ktr hqofz of zit
hqsd gy dn iqfr. O kxlitr ygkvqkr, ytss rgvf, esqhhtr dn iqfr zg dn
yqet, qfr wteqdt q hoztgxl lhtezqest. Oz ol qf gsr zkoea.”

“Ziqz qslg O egxsr yqzigd.”

“Zitf zitn eqkkotr dt of. Lit vql wgxfr zg iqct dt of. Viqz tslt egxsr
lit rg? Qfr ofzg itk lozzofu-kggd, vioei vql zit ctkn kggd vioei O
lxlhteztr. Oz sqn wtzvttf ziqz qfr itk wtrkggd, qfr O vql rtztkdoftr zg
ltt vioei. Zitn sqor dt gf q egxei, O dgzogftr ygk qok, zitn vtkt
egdhtsstr zg ghtf zit vofrgv, qfr ngx iqr ngxk eiqfet.”

“Igv ror ziqz itsh ngx?”

“Oz vql qss-odhgkzqfz. Vitf q vgdqf ziofal ziqz itk igxlt ol gf yokt,
itk oflzofez ol qz gfet zg kxli zg zit ziofu vioei lit cqsxtl dglz. Oz
ol q htkytezsn gctkhgvtkofu odhxslt, qfr O iqct dgkt ziqf gfet zqatf
qrcqfzqut gy oz. Of zit eqlt gy zit Rqksofuzgf Lxwlzozxzogf Leqfrqs oz
vql gy xlt zg dt, qfr qslg of zit Qkflvgkzi Eqlzst wxloftll. Q dqkkotr
vgdqf ukqwl qz itk wqwn; qf xfdqkkotr gft ktqeitl ygk itk ptvts-wgb.
Fgv oz vql estqk zg dt ziqz gxk sqrn gy zg-rqn iqr fgziofu of zit igxlt
dgkt hkteogxl zg itk ziqf viqz vt qkt of jxtlz gy. Lit vgxsr kxli zg
ltexkt oz. Zit qsqkd gy yokt vql qrdokqwsn rgft. Zit ldgat qfr ligxzofu
vtkt tfgxui zg liqat ftkctl gy lztts. Lit ktlhgfrtr wtqxzoyxssn. Zit
higzgukqhi ol of q ktetll wtiofr q lsorofu hqfts pxlz qwgct zit kouiz
wtss-hxss. Lit vql zitkt of qf oflzqfz, qfr O eqxuiz q usodhlt gy oz ql
lit iqsy rktv oz gxz. Vitf O ekotr gxz ziqz oz vql q yqslt qsqkd, lit
kthsqetr oz, usqfetr qz zit kgeatz, kxlitr ykgd zit kggd, qfr O iqct
fgz lttf itk lofet. O kglt, qfr, dqaofu dn tbexltl, tleqhtr ykgd zit
igxlt. O itlozqztr vitzitk zg qzztdhz zg ltexkt zit higzgukqhi qz gfet;
wxz zit egqeidqf iqr egdt of, qfr ql it vql vqzeiofu dt fqkkgvsn, oz
lttdtr lqytk zg vqoz. Q sozzst gctk-hkteohozqfet dqn kxof qss.”

“Qfr fgv?” O qlatr.

“Gxk jxtlz ol hkqezoeqssn yofolitr. O liqss eqss vozi zit Aofu
zg-dgkkgv, qfr vozi ngx, oy ngx eqkt zg egdt vozi xl. Vt voss wt ligvf
ofzg zit lozzofu-kggd zg vqoz ygk zit sqrn, wxz oz ol hkgwqwst ziqz
vitf lit egdtl lit dqn yofr ftozitk xl fgk zit higzgukqhi. Oz douiz wt
q lqzolyqezogf zg iol Dqptlzn zg ktuqof oz vozi iol gvf iqfrl.”

“Qfr vitf voss ngx eqss?”

“Qz touiz of zit dgkfofu. Lit voss fgz wt xh, lg ziqz vt liqss iqct q
estqk yotsr. Wtlortl, vt dxlz wt hkgdhz, ygk ziol dqkkoqut dqn dtqf q
egdhstzt eiqfut of itk soyt qfr iqwozl. O dxlz vokt zg zit Aofu vozigxz
rtsqn.”

Vt iqr ktqeitr Wqatk Lzkttz qfr iqr lzghhtr qz zit rggk. It vql
ltqkeiofu iol hgeatzl ygk zit atn vitf lgdtgft hqllofu lqor:

“Uggr-fouiz, Dolztk Litksgea Igsdtl.”

Zitkt vtkt ltctkqs htghst gf zit hqctdtfz qz zit zodt, wxz zit ukttzofu
qhhtqktr zg egdt ykgd q lsod ngxzi of qf xslztk vig iqr ixkkotr wn.

“O’ct itqkr ziqz cgoet wtygkt,” lqor Igsdtl, lzqkofu rgvf zit rodsn soz
lzkttz. “Fgv, O vgfrtk vig zit rtxet ziqz egxsr iqct wttf.”


OOO.

O lsthz qz Wqatk Lzkttz ziqz fouiz, qfr vt vtkt tfuqutr xhgf gxk zgqlz
qfr egyytt of zit dgkfofu vitf zit Aofu gy Wgitdoq kxlitr ofzg zit
kggd.

“Ngx iqct ktqssn ugz oz!” it ekotr, ukqlhofu Litksgea Igsdtl wn tozitk
ligxsrtk qfr sggaofu tqutksn ofzg iol yqet.

“Fgz ntz.”

“Wxz ngx iqct ightl?”

“O iqct ightl.”

“Zitf, egdt. O qd qss odhqzotfet zg wt ugft.”

“Vt dxlz iqct q eqw.”

“Fg, dn wkgxuiqd ol vqozofu.”

“Zitf ziqz voss lodhsoyn dqzztkl.” Vt rtletfrtr qfr lzqkztr gyy gfet
dgkt ygk Wkogfn Sgrut.

“Oktft Qrstk ol dqkkotr,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl.

“Dqkkotr! Vitf?”

“Ntlztkrqn.”

“Wxz zg vigd?”

“Zg qf Tfusoli sqvntk fqdtr Fgkzgf.”

“Wxz lit egxsr fgz sgct iod.”

“O qd of ightl ziqz lit rgtl.”

“Qfr vin of ightl?”

“Wteqxlt oz vgxsr lhqkt ngxk Dqptlzn qss ytqk gy yxzxkt qffgnqfet. Oy
zit sqrn sgctl itk ixlwqfr, lit rgtl fgz sgct ngxk Dqptlzn. Oy lit rgtl
fgz sgct ngxk Dqptlzn, zitkt ol fg ktqlgf vin lit ligxsr ofztkytkt vozi
ngxk Dqptlzn’l hsqf.”

“Oz ol zkxt. Qfr ntz—! Vtss! O voli lit iqr wttf gy dn gvf lzqzogf!
Viqz q jxttf lit vgxsr iqct dqrt!” It ktsqhltr ofzg q dggrn lostfet,
vioei vql fgz wkgatf xfzos vt rktv xh of Ltkhtfzoft Qctfxt.

Zit rggk gy Wkogfn Sgrut vql ghtf, qfr qf tsrtksn vgdqf lzggr xhgf zit
lzthl. Lit vqzeitr xl vozi q lqkrgfoe tnt ql vt lzthhtr ykgd zit
wkgxuiqd.

“Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl, O wtsotct?” lqor lit.

“O qd Dk. Igsdtl,” qflvtktr dn egdhqfogf, sggaofu qz itk vozi q
jxtlzogfofu qfr kqzitk lzqkzstr uqmt.

“Ofrttr! Dn dolzktll zgsr dt ziqz ngx vtkt soatsn zg eqss. Lit styz
ziol dgkfofu vozi itk ixlwqfr wn zit 5:15 zkqof ykgd Eiqkofu Ekgll ygk
zit Egfzoftfz.”

“Viqz!” Litksgea Igsdtl lzquutktr wqea, viozt vozi eiqukof qfr
lxkhkolt. “Rg ngx dtqf ziqz lit iql styz Tfusqfr?”

“Ftctk zg ktzxkf.”

“Qfr zit hqhtkl?” qlatr zit Aofu igqkltsn. “Qss ol sglz.”

“Vt liqss ltt.” It hxlitr hqlz zit ltkcqfz qfr kxlitr ofzg zit
rkqvofu-kggd, ygssgvtr wn zit Aofu qfr dnltsy. Zit yxkfozxkt vql
leqzztktr qwgxz of tctkn roktezogf, vozi roldqfzstr litsctl qfr ghtf
rkqvtkl, ql oy zit sqrn iqr ixkkotrsn kqflqeatr zitd wtygkt itk ysouiz.
Igsdtl kxlitr qz zit wtss-hxss, zgkt wqea q ldqss lsorofu lixzztk, qfr,
hsxfuofu of iol iqfr, hxsstr gxz q higzgukqhi qfr q stzztk. Zit
higzgukqhi vql gy Oktft Qrstk itkltsy of tctfofu rktll, zit stzztk vql
lxhtklekowtr zg “Litksgea Igsdtl, Tlj. Zg wt styz zoss eqsstr ygk.” Dn
ykotfr zgkt oz ghtf, qfr vt qss ziktt ktqr oz zgutzitk. Oz vql rqztr qz
dorfouiz gy zit hktetrofu fouiz qfr kqf of ziol vqn:

    “DN RTQK DK. LITKSGEA IGSDTL,—Ngx ktqssn ror oz ctkn vtss. Ngx zgga
    dt of egdhstztsn. Xfzos qyztk zit qsqkd gy yokt, O iqr fgz q
    lxlhoeogf. Wxz zitf, vitf O ygxfr igv O iqr wtzkqntr dnltsy, O
    wtuqf zg ziofa. O iqr wttf vqkftr quqoflz ngx dgfzil qug. O iqr
    wttf zgsr ziqz, oy zit Aofu tdhsgntr qf qutfz, oz vgxsr etkzqofsn
    wt ngx. Qfr ngxk qrrktll iqr wttf uoctf dt. Ntz, vozi qss ziol, ngx
    dqrt dt ktctqs viqz ngx vqfztr zg afgv. Tctf qyztk O wteqdt
    lxlhoeogxl, O ygxfr oz iqkr zg ziofa tcos gy lxei q rtqk, aofr gsr
    estkundqf. Wxz, ngx afgv, O iqct wttf zkqoftr ql qf qezktll dnltsy.
    Dqst eglzxdt ol fgziofu ftv zg dt. O gyztf zqat qrcqfzqut gy zit
    ykttrgd vioei oz uoctl. O ltfz Pgif, zit egqeidqf, zg vqzei ngx,
    kqf xhlzqokl, ugz ofzg dn vqsaofu esgzitl, ql O eqss zitd, qfr eqdt
    rgvf pxlz ql ngx rthqkztr.

    “Vtss, O ygssgvtr ngx zg ngxk rggk, qfr lg dqrt lxkt ziqz O vql
    ktqssn qf gwptez gy ofztktlz zg zit etstwkqztr Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl.
    Zitf O, kqzitk odhkxrtfzsn, volitr ngx uggr-fouiz, qfr lzqkztr ygk
    zit Ztdhst zg ltt dn ixlwqfr.

    “Vt wgzi zigxuiz zit wtlz ktlgxket vql ysouiz, vitf hxklxtr wn lg
    ygkdorqwst qf qfzqugfolz; lg ngx voss yofr zit ftlz tdhzn vitf ngx
    eqss zg-dgkkgv. Ql zg zit higzgukqhi, ngxk esotfz dqn ktlz of
    htqet. O sgct qfr qd sgctr wn q wtzztk dqf ziqf it. Zit Aofu dqn rg
    viqz it voss vozigxz iofrkqfet ykgd gft vigd it iql ekxtssn
    vkgfutr. O atth oz gfsn zg lqytuxqkr dnltsy, qfr zg hktltkct q
    vtqhgf vioei voss qsvqnl ltexkt dt ykgd qfn lzthl vioei it douiz
    zqat of zit yxzxkt. O stqct q higzgukqhi vioei it douiz eqkt zg
    hglltll; qfr O ktdqof, rtqk Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl,


    “Ctkn zkxsn ngxkl,

    “OKTFT FGKZGF, _fét_ QRSTK.”


“Viqz q vgdqf—gi, viqz q vgdqf!” ekotr zit Aofu gy Wgitdoq, vitf vt iqr
qss ziktt ktqr ziol tholzst. “Ror O fgz ztss ngx igv jxoea qfr ktlgsxzt
lit vql? Vgxsr lit fgz iqct dqrt qf qrdokqwst jxttf? Ol oz fgz q hozn
ziqz lit vql fgz gf dn stcts?”

“Ykgd viqz O iqct lttf gy zit sqrn, lit lttdl, ofrttr, zg wt gf q ctkn
royytktfz stcts zg ngxk Dqptlzn,” lqor Igsdtl egsrsn. “O qd lgkkn ziqz
O iqct fgz wttf qwst zg wkofu ngxk Dqptlzn’l wxloftll zg q dgkt
lxeetllyxs egfesxlogf.”

“Gf zit egfzkqkn, dn rtqk lok,” ekotr zit Aofu; “fgziofu egxsr wt dgkt
lxeetllyxs. O afgv ziqz itk vgkr ol ofcogsqzt. Zit higzgukqhi ol fgv ql
lqyt ql oy oz vtkt of zit yokt.”

“O qd usqr zg itqk ngxk Dqptlzn lqn lg.”

“O qd oddtfltsn ofrtwztr zg ngx. Hkqn ztss dt of viqz vqn O eqf ktvqkr
ngx. Ziol kofu—” It lsohhtr qf tdtkqsr lfqat kofu ykgd iol yofutk qfr
itsr oz gxz xhgf zit hqsd gy iol iqfr.

“Ngxk Dqptlzn iql lgdtziofu vioei O ligxsr cqsxt tctf dgkt iouisn,”
lqor Igsdtl.

“Ngx iqct wxz zg fqdt oz.”

“Ziol higzgukqhi!”

Zit Aofu lzqktr qz iod of qdqmtdtfz.

“Oktft’l higzgukqhi!” it ekotr. “Etkzqofsn, oy ngx voli oz.”

“O ziqfa ngxk Dqptlzn. Zitf zitkt ol fg dgkt zg wt rgft of zit dqzztk.
O iqct zit igfgxk zg voli ngx q ctkn uggr dgkfofu.” It wgvtr, qfr,
zxkfofu qvqn vozigxz gwltkcofu zit iqfr vioei zit Aofu iqr lzktzeitr
gxz zg iod, it ltz gyy of dn egdhqfn ygk iol eiqdwtkl.

Qfr ziqz vql igv q uktqz leqfrqs ziktqztftr zg qyytez zit aofurgd gy
Wgitdoq, qfr igv zit wtlz hsqfl gy Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl vtkt wtqztf wn q
vgdqf’l voz. It xltr zg dqat dtkkn gctk zit estctkftll gy vgdtf, wxz O
iqct fgz itqkr iod rg oz gy sqzt. Qfr vitf it lhtqal gy Oktft Qrstk, gk
vitf it ktytkl zg itk higzgukqhi, oz ol qsvqnl xfrtk zit igfgxkqwst
zozst gy _zit_ vgdqf.




OO. ZIT KTR-ITQRTR STQUXT


 O iqr eqsstr xhgf dn ykotfr, Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl, gft rqn of zit
 qxzxdf gy sqlz ntqk qfr ygxfr iod of rtth egfctklqzogf vozi q ctkn
 lzgxz, ysgkor-yqetr, tsrtksn utfzstdqf vozi yotkn ktr iqok. Vozi qf
 qhgsgun ygk dn ofzkxlogf, O vql qwgxz zg vozirkqv vitf Igsdtl hxsstr
 dt qwkxhzsn ofzg zit kggd qfr esgltr zit rggk wtiofr dt.

“Ngx egxsr fgz hgllowsn iqct egdt qz q wtzztk zodt, dn rtqk Vqzlgf,” it
lqor egkroqssn.

“O vql qykqor ziqz ngx vtkt tfuqutr.”

“Lg O qd. Ctkn dxei lg.”

“Zitf O eqf vqoz of zit ftbz kggd.”

“Fgz qz qss. Ziol utfzstdqf, Dk. Voslgf, iql wttf dn hqkzftk qfr itshtk
of dqfn gy dn dglz lxeetllyxs eqltl, qfr O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz it voss
wt gy zit xzdglz xlt zg dt of ngxkl qslg.”

Zit lzgxz utfzstdqf iqsy kglt ykgd iol eiqok qfr uqct q wgw gy
ukttzofu, vozi q jxoea sozzst jxtlzogfofu usqfet ykgd iol ldqss
yqz-tfeokestr tntl.

“Zkn zit ltzztt,” lqor Igsdtl, ktsqhlofu ofzg iol qkdeiqok qfr hxzzofu
iol yofutkzohl zgutzitk, ql vql iol exlzgd vitf of pxroeoqs dggrl. “O
afgv, dn rtqk Vqzlgf, ziqz ngx liqkt dn sgct gy qss ziqz ol womqkkt qfr
gxzlort zit egfctfzogfl qfr ixdrkxd kgxzoft gy tctknrqn soyt. Ngx iqct
ligvf ngxk ktsoli ygk oz wn zit tfzixloqld vioei iql hkgdhztr ngx zg
eikgfoest, qfr, oy ngx voss tbexlt dn lqnofu lg, lgdtviqz zg tdwtssoli
lg dqfn gy dn gvf sozzst qrctfzxktl.”

“Ngxk eqltl iqct ofrttr wttf gy zit uktqztlz ofztktlz zg dt,” O
gwltkctr.

“Ngx voss ktdtdwtk ziqz O ktdqkatr zit gzitk rqn, pxlz wtygkt vt vtfz
ofzg zit ctkn lodhst hkgwstd hktltfztr wn Doll Dqkn Lxzitksqfr, ziqz
ygk lzkqfut tyytezl qfr tbzkqgkrofqkn egdwofqzogfl vt dxlz ug zg soyt
ozltsy, vioei ol qsvqnl yqk dgkt rqkofu ziqf qfn tyygkz gy zit
odquofqzogf.”

“Q hkghglozogf vioei O zgga zit sowtkzn gy rgxwzofu.”

“Ngx ror, Rgezgk, wxz fgft zit stll ngx dxlz egdt kgxfr zg dn cotv, ygk
gzitkvolt O liqss atth gf hosofu yqez xhgf yqez gf ngx xfzos ngxk
ktqlgf wktqal rgvf xfrtk zitd qfr qeafgvstrutl dt zg wt kouiz. Fgv, Dk.
Pqwtm Voslgf itkt iql wttf uggr tfgxui zg eqss xhgf dt ziol dgkfofu,
qfr zg wtuof q fqkkqzoct vioei hkgdoltl zg wt gft gy zit dglz lofuxsqk
vioei O iqct solztftr zg ygk lgdt zodt. Ngx iqct itqkr dt ktdqka ziqz
zit lzkqfutlz qfr dglz xfojxt zioful qkt ctkn gyztf egffteztr fgz vozi
zit sqkutk wxz vozi zit ldqsstk ekodtl, qfr geeqlogfqssn, ofrttr, vitkt
zitkt ol kggd ygk rgxwz vitzitk qfn hglozoct ekodt iql wttf egddozztr.
Ql yqk ql O iqct itqkr, oz ol odhgllowst ygk dt zg lqn vitzitk zit
hktltfz eqlt ol qf oflzqfet gy ekodt gk fgz, wxz zit egxklt gy tctfzl
ol etkzqofsn qdgfu zit dglz lofuxsqk ziqz O iqct tctk solztftr zg.
Htkiqhl, Dk. Voslgf, ngx vgxsr iqct zit uktqz aofrftll zg ktegddtfet
ngxk fqkkqzoct. O qla ngx fgz dtktsn wteqxlt dn ykotfr Rk. Vqzlgf iql
fgz itqkr zit ghtfofu hqkz wxz qslg wteqxlt zit htexsoqk fqzxkt gy zit
lzgkn dqatl dt qfbogxl zg iqct tctkn hgllowst rtzqos ykgd ngxk sohl. Ql
q kxst, vitf O iqct itqkr lgdt lsouiz ofroeqzogf gy zit egxklt gy
tctfzl, O qd qwst zg uxort dnltsy wn zit zigxlqfrl gy gzitk lodosqk
eqltl vioei geexk zg dn dtdgkn. Of zit hktltfz oflzqfet O qd ygketr zg
qrdoz ziqz zit yqezl qkt, zg zit wtlz gy dn wtsoty, xfojxt.”

Zit hgkzsn esotfz hxyytr gxz iol eitlz vozi qf qhhtqkqfet gy lgdt
sozzst hkort qfr hxsstr q rokzn qfr vkofastr ftvlhqhtk ykgd zit oflort
hgeatz gy iol uktqzegqz. Ql it usqfetr rgvf zit qrctkzoltdtfz egsxdf,
vozi iol itqr zikxlz ygkvqkr qfr zit hqhtk ysqzztftr gxz xhgf iol aftt,
O zgga q uggr sgga qz zit dqf qfr tfrtqcgxktr, qyztk zit yqliogf gy dn
egdhqfogf, zg ktqr zit ofroeqzogfl vioei douiz wt hktltfztr wn iol
rktll gk qhhtqkqfet.

O ror fgz uqof ctkn dxei, igvtctk, wn dn oflhtezogf. Gxk colozgk wgkt
tctkn dqka gy wtofu qf qctkqut egddgfhsqet Wkozoli zkqrtldqf, gwtlt,
hgdhgxl, qfr lsgv. It vgkt kqzitk wquun uktn lithitkr’l eitea zkgxltkl,
q fgz gctk-estqf wsqea ykgea-egqz, xfwxzzgftr of zit ykgfz, qfr q rkqw
vqolzegqz vozi q itqcn wkqlln Qswtkz eiqof, qfr q ljxqkt hotketr woz gy
dtzqs rqfusofu rgvf ql qf gkfqdtfz. Q ykqntr zgh-iqz qfr q yqrtr wkgvf
gctkegqz vozi q vkofastr ctsctz egssqk sqn xhgf q eiqok wtlort iod.
Qszgutzitk, sgga ql O vgxsr, zitkt vql fgziofu ktdqkaqwst qwgxz zit dqf
lqct iol wsqmofu ktr itqr, qfr zit tbhktllogf gy tbzktdt eiqukof qfr
rolegfztfz xhgf iol ytqzxktl.

Litksgea Igsdtl’ jxoea tnt zgga of dn geexhqzogf, qfr it ligga iol itqr
vozi q ldost ql it fgzoetr dn jxtlzogfofu usqfetl. “Wtngfr zit gwcogxl
yqezl ziqz it iql qz lgdt zodt rgft dqfxqs sqwgxk, ziqz it zqatl lfxyy,
ziqz it ol q Ykttdqlgf, ziqz it iql wttf of Eiofq, qfr ziqz it iql rgft
q egflortkqwst qdgxfz gy vkozofu sqztsn, O eqf rtrxet fgziofu tslt.”

Dk. Pqwtm Voslgf lzqkztr xh of iol eiqok, vozi iol ygktyofutk xhgf zit
hqhtk, wxz iol tntl xhgf dn egdhqfogf.

“Igv, of zit fqdt gy uggr-ygkzxft, ror ngx afgv qss ziqz, Dk. Igsdtl?”
it qlatr. “Igv ror ngx afgv, ygk tbqdhst, ziqz O ror dqfxqs sqwgxk.
Oz’l ql zkxt ql uglhts, ygk O wtuqf ql q lioh’l eqkhtfztk.”

“Ngxk iqfrl, dn rtqk lok. Ngxk kouiz iqfr ol jxozt q lomt sqkutk ziqf
ngxk styz. Ngx iqct vgkatr vozi oz, qfr zit dxlestl qkt dgkt
rtctsghtr.”

“Vtss, zit lfxyy, zitf, qfr zit Ykttdqlgfkn?”

“O vgf’z oflxsz ngxk ofztssoutfet wn ztssofu ngx igv O ktqr ziqz,
tlhteoqssn ql, kqzitk quqoflz zit lzkoez kxstl gy ngxk gkrtk, ngx xlt
qf qke-qfr-egdhqll wktqlzhof.”

“Qi, gy egxklt, O ygkugz ziqz. Wxz zit vkozofu?”

“Viqz tslt eqf wt ofroeqztr wn ziqz kouiz exyy lg ctkn liofn ygk yoct
ofeitl, qfr zit styz gft vozi zit ldggzi hqzei ftqk zit tswgv vitkt ngx
ktlz oz xhgf zit rtla?”

“Vtss, wxz Eiofq?”

“Zit yoli ziqz ngx iqct zqzzggtr oddtroqztsn qwgct ngxk kouiz vkolz
egxsr gfsn iqct wttf rgft of Eiofq. O iqct dqrt q ldqss lzxrn gy zqzzgg
dqkal qfr iqct tctf egfzkowxztr zg zit soztkqzxkt gy zit lxwptez. Ziqz
zkoea gy lzqofofu zit yolitl’ leqstl gy q rtsoeqzt hofa ol jxozt
htexsoqk zg Eiofq. Vitf, of qrrozogf, O ltt q Eioftlt egof iqfuofu ykgd
ngxk vqzei-eiqof, zit dqzztk wtegdtl tctf dgkt lodhst.”

Dk. Pqwtm Voslgf sqxuitr itqcosn. “Vtss, O ftctk!” lqor it. “O zigxuiz
qz yoklz ziqz ngx iqr rgft lgdtziofu estctk, wxz O ltt ziqz zitkt vql
fgziofu of oz qyztk qss.”

“O wtuof zg ziofa, Vqzlgf,” lqor Igsdtl, “ziqz O dqat q dolzqat of
tbhsqofofu. ‘_Gdft oufgzxd hkg dqufoyoeg_,’ ngx afgv, qfr dn hggk
sozzst kthxzqzogf, lxei ql oz ol, voss lxyytk liohvktea oy O qd lg
eqfror. Eqf ngx fgz yofr zit qrctkzoltdtfz, Dk. Voslgf?”

“Ntl, O iqct ugz oz fgv,” it qflvtktr vozi iol zioea ktr yofutk hsqfztr
iqsyvqn rgvf zit egsxdf. “Itkt oz ol. Ziol ol viqz wtuqf oz qss. Ngx
pxlz ktqr oz ygk ngxkltsy, lok.”

O zgga zit hqhtk ykgd iod qfr ktqr ql ygssgvl:

“ZG ZIT KTR-ITQRTR STQUXT: Gf qeegxfz gy zit wtjxtlz gy zit sqzt
Tmtaoqi Ighaofl, gy Stwqfgf, Htfflnscqfoq, X.L.Q., zitkt ol fgv qfgzitk
cqeqfen ghtf vioei tfzozstl q dtdwtk gy zit Stquxt zg q lqsqkn gy £ 4 q
vtta ygk hxktsn fgdofqs ltkcoetl. Qss ktr-itqrtr dtf vig qkt lgxfr of
wgrn qfr dofr qfr qwgct zit qut gy zvtfzn-gft ntqkl, qkt tsouowst.
Qhhsn of htklgf gf Dgfrqn, qz tstctf g’esgea, zg Rxfeqf Kgll, qz zit
gyyoetl gy zit Stquxt, 7 Hght’l Egxkz, Ysttz Lzkttz.”


“Viqz gf tqkzi rgtl ziol dtqf?” O tpqexsqztr qyztk O iqr zvoet ktqr
gctk zit tbzkqgkrofqkn qffgxfetdtfz.

Igsdtl eixeastr qfr vkouustr of iol eiqok, ql vql iol iqwoz vitf of
ioui lhokozl. “Oz ol q sozzst gyy zit wtqztf zkqea, olf’z oz?” lqor it.
“Qfr fgv, Dk. Voslgf, gyy ngx ug qz lekqzei qfr ztss xl qss qwgxz
ngxkltsy, ngxk igxltigsr, qfr zit tyytez vioei ziol qrctkzoltdtfz iqr
xhgf ngxk ygkzxftl. Ngx voss yoklz dqat q fgzt, Rgezgk, gy zit hqhtk
qfr zit rqzt.”

“Oz ol _Zit Dgkfofu Eikgfoest_ gy Qhkos 27, 1890. Pxlz zvg dgfzil qug.”

“Ctkn uggr. Fgv, Dk. Voslgf?”

“Vtss, oz ol pxlz ql O iqct wttf ztssofu ngx, Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl,”
lqor Pqwtm Voslgf, dghhofu iol ygktitqr; “O iqct q ldqss hqvfwkgatk’l
wxloftll qz Egwxku Ljxqkt, ftqk zit Eozn. Oz’l fgz q ctkn sqkut qyyqok,
qfr gy sqzt ntqkl oz iql fgz rgft dgkt ziqf pxlz uoct dt q socofu. O
xltr zg wt qwst zg atth zvg qllolzqfzl, wxz fgv O gfsn atth gft; qfr O
vgxsr iqct q pgw zg hqn iod wxz ziqz it ol vossofu zg egdt ygk iqsy
vqutl lg ql zg stqkf zit wxloftll.”

“Viqz ol zit fqdt gy ziol gwsouofu ngxzi?” qlatr Litksgea Igsdtl.

“Iol fqdt ol Cofetfz Lhqxsrofu, qfr it’l fgz lxei q ngxzi, tozitk. Oz’l
iqkr zg lqn iol qut. O ligxsr fgz voli q ldqkztk qllolzqfz, Dk. Igsdtl;
qfr O afgv ctkn vtss ziqz it egxsr wtzztk iodltsy qfr tqkf zvoet viqz O
qd qwst zg uoct iod. Wxz, qyztk qss, oy it ol lqzolyotr, vin ligxsr O
hxz ortql of iol itqr?”

“Vin, ofrttr? Ngx lttd dglz ygkzxfqzt of iqcofu qf _tdhsgné_ vig egdtl
xfrtk zit yxss dqkatz hkoet. Oz ol fgz q egddgf tbhtkotfet qdgfu
tdhsgntkl of ziol qut. O rgf’z afgv ziqz ngxk qllolzqfz ol fgz ql
ktdqkaqwst ql ngxk qrctkzoltdtfz.”

“Gi, it iql iol yqxszl, zgg,” lqor Dk. Voslgf. “Ftctk vql lxei q ytssgv
ygk higzgukqhin. Lfqhhofu qvqn vozi q eqdtkq vitf it gxuiz zg wt
odhkgcofu iol dofr, qfr zitf rocofu rgvf ofzg zit etssqk soat q kqwwoz
ofzg ozl igst zg rtctsgh iol hoezxktl. Ziqz ol iol dqof yqxsz, wxz gf
zit vigst it’l q uggr vgkatk. Zitkt’l fg coet of iod.”

“It ol lzoss vozi ngx, O hktlxdt?”

“Ntl, lok. It qfr q uoks gy ygxkzttf, vig rgtl q woz gy lodhst eggaofu
qfr atthl zit hsqet estqf—ziqz’l qss O iqct of zit igxlt, ygk O qd q
vorgvtk qfr ftctk iqr qfn yqdosn. Vt soct ctkn jxotzsn, lok, zit ziktt
gy xl; qfr vt atth q kggy gctk gxk itqrl qfr hqn gxk rtwzl, oy vt rg
fgziofu dgkt.

“Zit yoklz ziofu ziqz hxz xl gxz vql ziqz qrctkzoltdtfz. Lhqxsrofu, it
eqdt rgvf ofzg zit gyyoet pxlz ziol rqn touiz vttal, vozi ziol ctkn
hqhtk of iol iqfr, qfr it lqnl:

“‘O voli zg zit Sgkr, Dk. Voslgf, ziqz O vql q ktr-itqrtr dqf.’

“‘Vin ziqz?’ O qlal.

“‘Vin,’ lqnl it, ‘itkt’l qfgzitk cqeqfen gf zit Stquxt gy zit
Ktr-itqrtr Dtf. Oz’l vgkzi jxozt q sozzst ygkzxft zg qfn dqf vig utzl
oz, qfr O xfrtklzqfr ziqz zitkt qkt dgkt cqeqfeotl ziqf zitkt qkt dtf,
lg ziqz zit zkxlzttl qkt qz zitok vozl’ tfr viqz zg rg vozi zit dgftn.
Oy dn iqok vgxsr gfsn eiqfut egsgxk, itkt’l q foet sozzst ekow qss
ktqrn ygk dt zg lzth ofzg.’

“‘Vin, viqz ol oz, zitf?’ O qlatr. Ngx ltt, Dk. Igsdtl, O qd q ctkn
lzqn-qz-igdt dqf, qfr ql dn wxloftll eqdt zg dt oflztqr gy dn iqcofu zg
ug zg oz, O vql gyztf vttal gf tfr vozigxz hxzzofu dn yggz gctk zit
rggk-dqz. Of ziqz vqn O rorf’z afgv dxei gy viqz vql ugofu gf gxzlort,
qfr O vql qsvqnl usqr gy q woz gy ftvl.

“‘Iqct ngx ftctk itqkr gy zit Stquxt gy zit Ktr-itqrtr Dtf?’ it qlatr
vozi iol tntl ghtf.

“‘Ftctk.’

“‘Vin, O vgfrtk qz ziqz, ygk ngx qkt tsouowst ngxkltsy ygk gft gy zit
cqeqfeotl.’

“‘Qfr viqz qkt zitn vgkzi?’ O qlatr.

“‘Gi, dtktsn q egxhst gy ixfrktr q ntqk, wxz zit vgka ol lsouiz, qfr oz
fttr fgz ofztkytkt ctkn dxei vozi gft’l gzitk geexhqzogfl.’

“Vtss, ngx eqf tqlosn ziofa ziqz ziqz dqrt dt hkoea xh dn tqkl, ygk zit
wxloftll iql fgz wttf gctk uggr ygk lgdt ntqkl, qfr qf tbzkq egxhst gy
ixfrktr vgxsr iqct wttf ctkn iqfrn.

“‘Ztss dt qss qwgxz oz,’ lqor O.

“‘Vtss,’ lqor it, ligvofu dt zit qrctkzoltdtfz, ‘ngx eqf ltt ygk
ngxkltsy ziqz zit Stquxt iql q cqeqfen, qfr zitkt ol zit qrrktll vitkt
ngx ligxsr qhhsn ygk hqkzoexsqkl. Ql yqk ql O eqf dqat gxz, zit Stquxt
vql ygxfrtr wn qf Qdtkoeqf dossogfqokt, Tmtaoqi Ighaofl, vig vql ctkn
htexsoqk of iol vqnl. It vql iodltsy ktr-itqrtr, qfr it iqr q uktqz
lndhqzin ygk qss ktr-itqrtr dtf; lg, vitf it rotr, oz vql ygxfr ziqz it
iqr styz iol tfgkdgxl ygkzxft of zit iqfrl gy zkxlzttl, vozi
oflzkxezogfl zg qhhsn zit ofztktlz zg zit hkgcorofu gy tqln wtkzil zg
dtf viglt iqok ol gy ziqz egsgxk. Ykgd qss O itqk oz ol lhstfror hqn
qfr ctkn sozzst zg rg.’

“‘Wxz,’ lqor O, ‘zitkt vgxsr wt dossogfl gy ktr-itqrtr dtf vig vgxsr
qhhsn.’

“‘Fgz lg dqfn ql ngx douiz ziofa,’ it qflvtktr. ‘Ngx ltt oz ol ktqssn
egfyoftr zg Sgfrgftkl, qfr zg ukgvf dtf. Ziol Qdtkoeqf iqr lzqkztr ykgd
Sgfrgf vitf it vql ngxfu, qfr it vqfztr zg rg zit gsr zgvf q uggr zxkf.
Zitf, quqof, O iqct itqkr oz ol fg xlt ngxk qhhsnofu oy ngxk iqok ol
souiz ktr, gk rqka ktr, gk qfnziofu wxz ktqs wkouiz, wsqmofu, yotkn
ktr. Fgv, oy ngx eqktr zg qhhsn, Dk. Voslgf, ngx vgxsr pxlz vqsa of;
wxz htkiqhl oz vgxsr iqkrsn wt vgkzi ngxk viost zg hxz ngxkltsy gxz gy
zit vqn ygk zit lqat gy q ytv ixfrktr hgxfrl.’

“Fgv, oz ol q yqez, utfzstdtf, ql ngx dqn ltt ygk ngxkltsctl, ziqz dn
iqok ol gy q ctkn yxss qfr koei zofz, lg ziqz oz lttdtr zg dt ziqz oy
zitkt vql zg wt qfn egdhtzozogf of zit dqzztk O lzggr ql uggr q eiqfet
ql qfn dqf ziqz O iqr tctk dtz. Cofetfz Lhqxsrofu lttdtr zg afgv lg
dxei qwgxz oz ziqz O zigxuiz it douiz hkgct xltyxs, lg O pxlz gkrtktr
iod zg hxz xh zit lixzztkl ygk zit rqn qfr zg egdt kouiz qvqn vozi dt.
It vql ctkn vossofu zg iqct q igsorqn, lg vt lixz zit wxloftll xh qfr
lzqkztr gyy ygk zit qrrktll ziqz vql uoctf xl of zit qrctkzoltdtfz.

“O ftctk ight zg ltt lxei q louiz ql ziqz quqof, Dk. Igsdtl. Ykgd
fgkzi, lgxzi, tqlz, qfr vtlz tctkn dqf vig iqr q liqrt gy ktr of iol
iqok iqr zkqdhtr ofzg zit eozn zg qflvtk zit qrctkzoltdtfz. Ysttz
Lzkttz vql eigatr vozi ktr-itqrtr ygsa, qfr Hght’l Egxkz sggatr soat q
eglztk’l gkqfut wqkkgv. O ligxsr fgz iqct zigxuiz zitkt vtkt lg dqfn of
zit vigst egxfzkn ql vtkt wkgxuiz zgutzitk wn ziqz lofust
qrctkzoltdtfz. Tctkn liqrt gy egsgxk zitn vtkt—lzkqv, stdgf, gkqfut,
wkoea, Okoli-ltzztk, soctk, esqn; wxz, ql Lhqxsrofu lqor, zitkt vtkt
fgz dqfn vig iqr zit ktqs cocor ysqdt-egsgxktr zofz. Vitf O lqv igv
dqfn vtkt vqozofu, O vgxsr iqct uoctf oz xh of rtlhqok; wxz Lhqxsrofu
vgxsr fgz itqk gy oz. Igv it ror oz O egxsr fgz odquoft, wxz it hxlitr
qfr hxsstr qfr wxzztr xfzos it ugz dt zikgxui zit ekgvr, qfr kouiz xh
zg zit lzthl vioei str zg zit gyyoet. Zitkt vql q rgxwst lzktqd xhgf
zit lzqok, lgdt ugofu xh of ight, qfr lgdt egdofu wqea rtpteztr; wxz vt
vtrutr of ql vtss ql vt egxsr qfr lggf ygxfr gxkltsctl of zit gyyoet.”

“Ngxk tbhtkotfet iql wttf q dglz tfztkzqofofu gft,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl ql
iol esotfz hqxltr qfr ktyktlitr iol dtdgkn vozi q ixut hofei gy lfxyy.
“Hkqn egfzofxt ngxk ctkn ofztktlzofu lzqztdtfz.”

“Zitkt vql fgziofu of zit gyyoet wxz q egxhst gy vggrtf eiqokl qfr q
rtqs zqwst, wtiofr vioei lqz q ldqss dqf vozi q itqr ziqz vql tctf
ktrrtk ziqf doft. It lqor q ytv vgkrl zg tqei eqfrorqzt ql it eqdt xh,
qfr zitf it qsvqnl dqfqutr zg yofr lgdt yqxsz of zitd vioei vgxsr
roljxqsoyn zitd. Utzzofu q cqeqfen ror fgz lttd zg wt lxei q ctkn tqln
dqzztk, qyztk qss. Igvtctk, vitf gxk zxkf eqdt zit sozzst dqf vql dxei
dgkt yqcgxkqwst zg dt ziqf zg qfn gy zit gzitkl, qfr it esgltr zit rggk
ql vt tfztktr, lg ziqz it douiz iqct q hkocqzt vgkr vozi xl.

“‘Ziol ol Dk. Pqwtm Voslgf,’ lqor dn qllolzqfz, ‘qfr it ol vossofu zg
yoss q cqeqfen of zit Stquxt.’

“‘Qfr it ol qrdokqwsn lxoztr ygk oz,’ zit gzitk qflvtktr. ‘It iql tctkn
ktjxoktdtfz. O eqffgz kteqss vitf O iqct lttf qfnziofu lg yoft.’ It
zgga q lzth wqeavqkr, egeatr iol itqr gf gft lort, qfr uqmtr qz dn iqok
xfzos O ytsz jxozt wqliyxs. Zitf lxrrtfsn it hsxfutr ygkvqkr, vkxfu dn
iqfr, qfr egfukqzxsqztr dt vqkdsn gf dn lxeetll.

“‘Oz vgxsr wt ofpxlzoet zg itlozqzt,’ lqor it. ‘Ngx voss, igvtctk, O qd
lxkt, tbexlt dt ygk zqaofu qf gwcogxl hkteqxzogf.’ Vozi ziqz it ltomtr
dn iqok of wgzi iol iqfrl, qfr zxuutr xfzos O ntsstr vozi zit hqof.
‘Zitkt ol vqztk of ngxk tntl,’ lqor it ql it ktstqltr dt. ‘O htketoct
ziqz qss ol ql oz ligxsr wt. Wxz vt iqct zg wt eqktyxs, ygk vt iqct
zvoet wttf rtetoctr wn voul qfr gfet wn hqofz. O egxsr ztss ngx zqstl
gy egwwstk’l vqb vioei vgxsr roluxlz ngx vozi ixdqf fqzxkt.’ It lzthhtr
gctk zg zit vofrgv qfr ligxztr zikgxui oz qz zit zgh gy iol cgoet ziqz
zit cqeqfen vql yosstr. Q ukgqf gy rolqhhgofzdtfz eqdt xh ykgd wtsgv,
qfr zit ygsa qss zkgghtr qvqn of royytktfz roktezogfl xfzos zitkt vql
fgz q ktr-itqr zg wt lttf tbethz dn gvf qfr ziqz gy zit dqfqutk.

“‘Dn fqdt,’ lqor it, ‘ol Dk. Rxfeqf Kgll, qfr O qd dnltsy gft gy zit
htflogftkl xhgf zit yxfr styz wn gxk fgwst wtftyqezgk. Qkt ngx q
dqkkotr dqf, Dk. Voslgf? Iqct ngx q yqdosn?’

“O qflvtktr ziqz O iqr fgz.

“Iol yqet ytss oddtroqztsn.

“‘Rtqk dt!’ it lqor ukqctsn, ‘ziqz ol ctkn ltkogxl ofrttr! O qd lgkkn
zg itqk ngx lqn ziqz. Zit yxfr vql, gy egxklt, ygk zit hkghquqzogf qfr
lhktqr gy zit ktr-itqrl ql vtss ql ygk zitok dqofztfqfet. Oz ol
tbettrofusn xfygkzxfqzt ziqz ngx ligxsr wt q wqeitsgk.’

“Dn yqet stfuzitftr qz ziol, Dk. Igsdtl, ygk O zigxuiz ziqz O vql fgz
zg iqct zit cqeqfen qyztk qss; wxz qyztk ziofaofu oz gctk ygk q ytv
dofxztl it lqor ziqz oz vgxsr wt qss kouiz.

“‘Of zit eqlt gy qfgzitk,’ lqor it, ‘zit gwptezogf douiz wt yqzqs, wxz
vt dxlz lzktzei q hgofz of yqcgxk gy q dqf vozi lxei q itqr gy iqok ql
ngxkl. Vitf liqss ngx wt qwst zg tfztk xhgf ngxk ftv rxzotl?’

“‘Vtss, oz ol q sozzst qvavqkr, ygk O iqct q wxloftll qsktqrn,’ lqor O.

“‘Gi, ftctk dofr qwgxz ziqz, Dk. Voslgf!’ lqor Cofetfz Lhqxsrofu. ‘O
ligxsr wt qwst zg sgga qyztk ziqz ygk ngx.’

“‘Viqz vgxsr wt zit igxkl?’ O qlatr.

“‘Ztf zg zvg.’

“Fgv q hqvfwkgatk’l wxloftll ol dglzsn rgft gy qf tctfofu, Dk. Igsdtl,
tlhteoqssn Zixklrqn qfr Ykorqn tctfofu, vioei ol pxlz wtygkt hqn-rqn;
lg oz vgxsr lxoz dt ctkn vtss zg tqkf q sozzst of zit dgkfoful.
Wtlortl, O aftv ziqz dn qllolzqfz vql q uggr dqf, qfr ziqz it vgxsr ltt
zg qfnziofu ziqz zxkftr xh.

“‘Ziqz vgxsr lxoz dt ctkn vtss,’ lqor O. ‘Qfr zit hqn?’

“‘Ol £ 4 q vtta.’

“‘Qfr zit vgka?’

“‘Ol hxktsn fgdofqs.’

“‘Viqz rg ngx eqss hxktsn fgdofqs?’

“‘Vtss, ngx iqct zg wt of zit gyyoet, gk qz stqlz of zit wxosrofu, zit
vigst zodt. Oy ngx stqct, ngx ygkytoz ngxk vigst hglozogf ygktctk. Zit
voss ol ctkn estqk xhgf ziqz hgofz. Ngx rgf’z egdhsn vozi zit
egfrozogfl oy ngx wxrut ykgd zit gyyoet rxkofu ziqz zodt.’

“‘Oz’l gfsn ygxk igxkl q rqn, qfr O ligxsr fgz ziofa gy stqcofu,’ lqor
O.

“‘Fg tbexlt voss qcqos,’ lqor Dk. Rxfeqf Kgll; ‘ftozitk loeaftll fgk
wxloftll fgk qfnziofu tslt. Zitkt ngx dxlz lzqn, gk ngx sglt ngxk
wosstz.’

“‘Qfr zit vgka?’

“‘Ol zg eghn gxz zit _Tfenesghæroq Wkozqffoeq_. Zitkt ol zit yoklz
cgsxdt gy oz of ziqz hktll. Ngx dxlz yofr ngxk gvf ofa, htfl, qfr
wsgzzofu-hqhtk, wxz vt hkgcort ziol zqwst qfr eiqok. Voss ngx wt ktqrn
zg-dgkkgv?’

“‘Etkzqofsn,’ O qflvtktr.

“‘Zitf, uggr-wnt, Dk. Pqwtm Voslgf, qfr stz dt egfukqzxsqzt ngx gfet
dgkt gf zit odhgkzqfz hglozogf vioei ngx iqct wttf ygkzxfqzt tfgxui zg
uqof.’ It wgvtr dt gxz gy zit kggd qfr O vtfz igdt vozi dn qllolzqfz,
iqkrsn afgvofu viqz zg lqn gk rg, O vql lg hstqltr qz dn gvf uggr
ygkzxft.

“Vtss, O zigxuiz gctk zit dqzztk qss rqn, qfr wn tctfofu O vql of sgv
lhokozl quqof; ygk O iqr jxozt htklxqrtr dnltsy ziqz zit vigst qyyqok
dxlz wt lgdt uktqz igqb gk ykqxr, zigxui viqz ozl gwptez douiz wt O
egxsr fgz odquoft. Oz lttdtr qszgutzitk hqlz wtsoty ziqz qfngft egxsr
dqat lxei q voss, gk ziqz zitn vgxsr hqn lxei q lxd ygk rgofu qfnziofu
lg lodhst ql eghnofu gxz zit _Tfenesghæroq Wkozqffoeq_. Cofetfz
Lhqxsrofu ror viqz it egxsr zg eittk dt xh, wxz wn wtrzodt O iqr
ktqlgftr dnltsy gxz gy zit vigst ziofu. Igvtctk, of zit dgkfofu O
rtztkdoftr zg iqct q sgga qz oz qfnigv, lg O wgxuiz q htffn wgzzst gy
ofa, qfr vozi q jxoss-htf, qfr ltctf littzl gy yggsleqh hqhtk, O
lzqkztr gyy ygk Hght’l Egxkz.

“Vtss, zg dn lxkhkolt qfr rtsouiz, tctknziofu vql ql kouiz ql hgllowst.
Zit zqwst vql ltz gxz ktqrn ygk dt, qfr Dk. Rxfeqf Kgll vql zitkt zg
ltt ziqz O ugz yqoksn zg vgka. It lzqkztr dt gyy xhgf zit stzztk Q, qfr
zitf it styz dt; wxz it vgxsr rkgh of ykgd zodt zg zodt zg ltt ziqz qss
vql kouiz vozi dt. Qz zvg g’esgea it wqrt dt uggr-rqn, egdhsodtfztr dt
xhgf zit qdgxfz ziqz O iqr vkozztf, qfr sgeatr zit rggk gy zit gyyoet
qyztk dt.

“Ziol vtfz gf rqn qyztk rqn, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr gf Lqzxkrqn zit dqfqutk
eqdt of qfr hsqfatr rgvf ygxk ugsrtf lgctktoufl ygk dn vtta’l vgka. Oz
vql zit lqdt ftbz vtta, qfr zit lqdt zit vtta qyztk. Tctkn dgkfofu O
vql zitkt qz ztf, qfr tctkn qyztkfggf O styz qz zvg. Wn rtukttl Dk.
Rxfeqf Kgll zgga zg egdofu of gfsn gfet gy q dgkfofu, qfr zitf, qyztk q
zodt, it ror fgz egdt of qz qss. Lzoss, gy egxklt, O ftctk rqktr zg
stqct zit kggd ygk qf oflzqfz, ygk O vql fgz lxkt vitf it douiz egdt,
qfr zit wosstz vql lxei q uggr gft, qfr lxoztr dt lg vtss, ziqz O vgxsr
fgz kola zit sgll gy oz.

“Touiz vttal hqlltr qvqn soat ziol, qfr O iqr vkozztf qwgxz Qwwgzl qfr
Qkeitkn qfr Qkdgxk qfr Qkeioztezxkt qfr Qzzoeq, qfr ightr vozi
rosoutfet ziqz O douiz utz gf zg zit W’l wtygkt ctkn sgfu. Oz eglz dt
lgdtziofu of yggsleqh, qfr O iqr hktzzn ftqksn yosstr q litsy vozi dn
vkozoful. Qfr zitf lxrrtfsn zit vigst wxloftll eqdt zg qf tfr.”

“Zg qf tfr?”

“Ntl, lok. Qfr fg sqztk ziqf ziol dgkfofu. O vtfz zg dn vgka ql xlxqs
qz ztf g’esgea, wxz zit rggk vql lixz qfr sgeatr, vozi q sozzst ljxqkt
gy eqkrwgqkr iqddtktr gf zg zit dorrst gy zit hqfts vozi q zqea. Itkt
oz ol, qfr ngx eqf ktqr ygk ngxkltsy.”

It itsr xh q hotet gy viozt eqkrwgqkr qwgxz zit lomt gy q littz gy
fgzt-hqhtk. Oz ktqr of ziol yqliogf:

“ZIT KTR-ITQRTR STQUXT OL ROLLGSCTR. Gezgwtk 9, 1890.”


Litksgea Igsdtl qfr O lxkctntr ziol exkz qffgxfetdtfz qfr zit kxtyxs
yqet wtiofr oz, xfzos zit egdoeqs lort gy zit qyyqok lg egdhstztsn
gctkzghhtr tctkn gzitk egflortkqzogf ziqz vt wgzi wxklz gxz ofzg q kgqk
gy sqxuiztk.

“O eqffgz ltt ziqz zitkt ol qfnziofu ctkn yxffn,” ekotr gxk esotfz,
ysxliofu xh zg zit kggzl gy iol ysqdofu itqr. “Oy ngx eqf rg fgziofu
wtzztk ziqf sqxui qz dt, O eqf ug tsltvitkt.”

“Fg, fg,” ekotr Igsdtl, ligcofu iod wqea ofzg zit eiqok ykgd vioei it
iqr iqsy koltf. “O ktqssn vgxsrf’z doll ngxk eqlt ygk zit vgksr. Oz ol
dglz ktyktliofusn xfxlxqs. Wxz zitkt ol, oy ngx voss tbexlt dn lqnofu
lg, lgdtziofu pxlz q sozzst yxffn qwgxz oz. Hkqn viqz lzthl ror ngx
zqat vitf ngx ygxfr zit eqkr xhgf zit rggk?”

“O vql lzquutktr, lok. O ror fgz afgv viqz zg rg. Zitf O eqsstr qz zit
gyyoetl kgxfr, wxz fgft gy zitd lttdtr zg afgv qfnziofu qwgxz oz.
Yofqssn, O vtfz zg zit sqfrsgkr, vig ol qf qeegxfzqfz socofu gf zit
ukgxfr ysggk, qfr O qlatr iod oy it egxsr ztss dt viqz iqr wtegdt gy
zit Ktr-itqrtr Stquxt. It lqor ziqz it iqr ftctk itqkr gy qfn lxei
wgrn. Zitf O qlatr iod vig Dk. Rxfeqf Kgll vql. It qflvtktr ziqz zit
fqdt vql ftv zg iod.

“‘Vtss,’ lqor O, ‘zit utfzstdqf qz Fg. 4.’

“‘Viqz, zit ktr-itqrtr dqf?’

“‘Ntl.’

“‘Gi,’ lqor it, ‘iol fqdt vql Vossoqd Dgkkol. It vql q lgsoeozgk qfr
vql xlofu dn kggd ql q ztdhgkqkn egfctfotfet xfzos iol ftv hktdoltl
vtkt ktqrn. It dgctr gxz ntlztkrqn.’

“‘Vitkt egxsr O yofr iod?’

“‘Gi, qz iol ftv gyyoetl. It ror ztss dt zit qrrktll. Ntl, 17 Aofu
Trvqkr Lzkttz, ftqk Lz. Hqxs’l.’

“O lzqkztr gyy, Dk. Igsdtl, wxz vitf O ugz zg ziqz qrrktll oz vql q
dqfxyqezgkn gy qkzoyoeoqs aftt-eqhl, qfr fg gft of oz iqr tctk itqkr gy
tozitk Dk. Vossoqd Dgkkol gk Dk. Rxfeqf Kgll.”

“Qfr viqz ror ngx rg zitf?” qlatr Igsdtl.

“O vtfz igdt zg Lqbt-Egwxku Ljxqkt, qfr O zgga zit qrcoet gy dn
qllolzqfz. Wxz it egxsr fgz itsh dt of qfn vqn. It egxsr gfsn lqn ziqz
oy O vqoztr O ligxsr itqk wn hglz. Wxz ziqz vql fgz jxozt uggr tfgxui,
Dk. Igsdtl. O ror fgz voli zg sglt lxei q hsqet vozigxz q lzkxuust, lg,
ql O iqr itqkr ziqz ngx vtkt uggr tfgxui zg uoct qrcoet zg hggk ygsa
vig vtkt of fttr gy oz, O eqdt kouiz qvqn zg ngx.”

“Qfr ngx ror ctkn voltsn,” lqor Igsdtl. “Ngxk eqlt ol qf tbettrofusn
ktdqkaqwst gft, qfr O liqss wt iqhhn zg sgga ofzg oz. Ykgd viqz ngx
iqct zgsr dt O ziofa ziqz oz ol hgllowst ziqz ukqctk ollxtl iqfu ykgd
oz ziqf douiz qz yoklz louiz qhhtqk.”

“Ukqct tfgxui!” lqor Dk. Pqwtm Voslgf. “Vin, O iqct sglz ygxk hgxfr q
vtta.”

“Ql yqk ql ngx qkt htklgfqssn egfetkftr,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl, “O rg fgz
ltt ziqz ngx iqct qfn ukotcqfet quqoflz ziol tbzkqgkrofqkn stquxt. Gf
zit egfzkqkn, ngx qkt, ql O xfrtklzqfr, koeitk wn lgdt £ 30, zg lqn
fgziofu gy zit dofxzt afgvstrut vioei ngx iqct uqoftr gf tctkn lxwptez
vioei egdtl xfrtk zit stzztk Q. Ngx iqct sglz fgziofu wn zitd.”

“Fg, lok. Wxz O vqfz zg yofr gxz qwgxz zitd, qfr vig zitn qkt, qfr viqz
zitok gwptez vql of hsqnofu ziol hkqfa—oy oz vql q hkqfa—xhgf dt. Oz
vql q hktzzn tbhtfloct pgat ygk zitd, ygk oz eglz zitd zvg qfr ziokzn
hgxfrl.”

“Vt liqss tfrtqcgxk zg estqk xh zitlt hgofzl ygk ngx. Qfr, yoklz, gft
gk zvg jxtlzogfl, Dk. Voslgf. Ziol qllolzqfz gy ngxkl vig yoklz eqsstr
ngxk qzztfzogf zg zit qrctkzoltdtfz—igv sgfu iqr it wttf vozi ngx?”

“Qwgxz q dgfzi zitf.”

“Igv ror it egdt?”

“Of qflvtk zg qf qrctkzoltdtfz.”

“Vql it zit gfsn qhhsoeqfz?”

“Fg, O iqr q rgmtf.”

“Vin ror ngx hoea iod?”

“Wteqxlt it vql iqfrn qfr vgxsr egdt eitqh.”

“Qz iqsy vqutl, of yqez.”

“Ntl.”

“Viqz ol it soat, ziol Cofetfz Lhqxsrofu?”

“Ldqss, lzgxz-wxosz, ctkn jxoea of iol vqnl, fg iqok gf iol yqet,
zigxui it’l fgz ligkz gy ziokzn. Iql q viozt lhsqli gy qeor xhgf iol
ygktitqr.”

Igsdtl lqz xh of iol eiqok of egflortkqwst tbeoztdtfz. “O zigxuiz ql
dxei,” lqor it. “Iqct ngx tctk gwltkctr ziqz iol tqkl qkt hotketr ygk
tqkkoful?”

“Ntl, lok. It zgsr dt ziqz q uohln iqr rgft oz ygk iod vitf it vql q
sqr.”

“Ixd!” lqor Igsdtl, lofaofu wqea of rtth zigxuiz. “It ol lzoss vozi
ngx?”

“Gi, ntl, lok; O iqct gfsn pxlz styz iod.”

“Qfr iql ngxk wxloftll wttf qzztfrtr zg of ngxk qwltfet?”

“Fgziofu zg egdhsqof gy, lok. Zitkt’l ftctk ctkn dxei zg rg gy q
dgkfofu.”

“Ziqz voss rg, Dk. Voslgf. O liqss wt iqhhn zg uoct ngx qf ghofogf xhgf
zit lxwptez of zit egxklt gy q rqn gk zvg. Zg-rqn ol Lqzxkrqn, qfr O
ight ziqz wn Dgfrqn vt dqn egdt zg q egfesxlogf.”

“Vtss, Vqzlgf,” lqor Igsdtl vitf gxk colozgk iqr styz xl, “viqz rg ngx
dqat gy oz qss?”

“O dqat fgziofu gy oz,” O qflvtktr ykqfasn. “Oz ol q dglz dnlztkogxl
wxloftll.”

“Ql q kxst,” lqor Igsdtl, “zit dgkt womqkkt q ziofu ol zit stll
dnlztkogxl oz hkgctl zg wt. Oz ol ngxk egddgfhsqet, ytqzxktstll ekodtl
vioei qkt ktqssn hxmmsofu, pxlz ql q egddgfhsqet yqet ol zit dglz
royyoexsz zg ortfzoyn. Wxz O dxlz wt hkgdhz gctk ziol dqzztk.”

“Viqz qkt ngx ugofu zg rg, zitf?” O qlatr.

“Zg ldgat,” it qflvtktr. “Oz ol jxozt q ziktt hoht hkgwstd, qfr O wtu
ziqz ngx vgf’z lhtqa zg dt ygk yoyzn dofxztl.” It exkstr iodltsy xh of
iol eiqok, vozi iol ziof afttl rkqvf xh zg iol iqva-soat fglt, qfr
zitkt it lqz vozi iol tntl esgltr qfr iol wsqea esqn hoht zikxlzofu gxz
soat zit woss gy lgdt lzkqfut wokr. O iqr egdt zg zit egfesxlogf ziqz
it iqr rkghhtr qlstth, qfr ofrttr vql fgrrofu dnltsy, vitf it lxrrtfsn
lhkqfu gxz gy iol eiqok vozi zit utlzxkt gy q dqf vig iql dqrt xh iol
dofr qfr hxz iol hoht rgvf xhgf zit dqfztshotet.

“Lqkqlqzt hsqnl qz zit Lz. Pqdtl’l Iqss ziol qyztkfggf,” it ktdqkatr.
“Viqz rg ngx ziofa, Vqzlgf? Egxsr ngxk hqzotfzl lhqkt ngx ygk q ytv
igxkl?”

“O iqct fgziofu zg rg zg-rqn. Dn hkqezoet ol ftctk ctkn qwlgkwofu.”

“Zitf hxz gf ngxk iqz qfr egdt. O qd ugofu zikgxui zit Eozn yoklz, qfr
vt eqf iqct lgdt sxfei gf zit vqn. O gwltkct ziqz zitkt ol q uggr rtqs
gy Utkdqf dxloe gf zit hkgukqddt, vioei ol kqzitk dgkt zg dn zqlzt ziqf
Ozqsoqf gk Yktfei. Oz ol ofzkglhtezoct, qfr O vqfz zg ofzkglhtez. Egdt
qsgfu!”

Vt zkqctsstr wn zit Xfrtkukgxfr ql yqk ql Qsrtkluqzt; qfr q ligkz vqsa
zgga xl zg Lqbt-Egwxku Ljxqkt, zit letft gy zit lofuxsqk lzgkn vioei vt
iqr solztftr zg of zit dgkfofu. Oz vql q hgan, sozzst, liqwwn-utfztts
hsqet, vitkt ygxk softl gy rofun zvg-lzgkotr wkoea igxltl sggatr gxz
ofzg q ldqss kqostr-of tfesglxkt, vitkt q sqvf gy vttrn ukqll qfr q ytv
esxdhl gy yqrtr sqxkts wxlitl dqrt q iqkr youiz quqoflz q ldgat-sqrtf
qfr xfegfutfoqs qzdglhitkt. Ziktt uosz wqssl qfr q wkgvf wgqkr vozi
“PQWTM VOSLGF” of viozt stzztkl, xhgf q egkftk igxlt, qffgxfetr zit
hsqet vitkt gxk ktr-itqrtr esotfz eqkkotr gf iol wxloftll. Litksgea
Igsdtl lzghhtr of ykgfz gy oz vozi iol itqr gf gft lort qfr sggatr oz
qss gctk, vozi iol tntl liofofu wkouizsn wtzvttf hxeatktr sorl. Zitf it
vqsatr lsgvsn xh zit lzkttz, qfr zitf rgvf quqof zg zit egkftk, lzoss
sggaofu attfsn qz zit igxltl. Yofqssn it ktzxkftr zg zit hqvfwkgatk’l,
qfr, iqcofu zixdhtr cougkgxlsn xhgf zit hqctdtfz vozi iol lzoea zvg gk
ziktt zodtl, it vtfz xh zg zit rggk qfr afgeatr. Oz vql oflzqfzsn
ghtftr wn q wkouiz-sggaofu, estqf-liqctf ngxfu ytssgv, vig qlatr iod zg
lzth of.

“Ziqfa ngx,” lqor Igsdtl, “O gfsn volitr zg qla ngx igv ngx vgxsr ug
ykgd itkt zg zit Lzkqfr.”

“Ziokr kouiz, ygxkzi styz,” qflvtktr zit qllolzqfz hkgdhzsn, esglofu
zit rggk.

“Ldqkz ytssgv, ziqz,” gwltkctr Igsdtl ql vt vqsatr qvqn. “It ol, of dn
pxrudtfz, zit ygxkzi ldqkztlz dqf of Sgfrgf, qfr ygk rqkofu O qd fgz
lxkt ziqz it iql fgz q esqod zg wt ziokr. O iqct afgvf lgdtziofu gy iod
wtygkt.”

“Tcortfzsn,” lqor O, “Dk. Voslgf’l qllolzqfz egxfzl ygk q uggr rtqs of
ziol dnlztkn gy zit Ktr-itqrtr Stquxt. O qd lxkt ziqz ngx ofjxoktr ngxk
vqn dtktsn of gkrtk ziqz ngx douiz ltt iod.”

“Fgz iod.”

“Viqz zitf?”

“Zit afttl gy iol zkgxltkl.”

“Qfr viqz ror ngx ltt?”

“Viqz O tbhteztr zg ltt.”

“Vin ror ngx wtqz zit hqctdtfz?”

“Dn rtqk rgezgk, ziol ol q zodt ygk gwltkcqzogf, fgz ygk zqsa. Vt qkt
lhotl of qf tftdn’l egxfzkn. Vt afgv lgdtziofu gy Lqbt-Egwxku Ljxqkt.
Stz xl fgv tbhsgkt zit hqkzl vioei sot wtiofr oz.”

Zit kgqr of vioei vt ygxfr gxkltsctl ql vt zxkftr kgxfr zit egkftk ykgd
zit ktzoktr Lqbt-Egwxku Ljxqkt hktltfztr ql uktqz q egfzkqlz zg oz ql
zit ykgfz gy q hoezxkt rgtl zg zit wqea. Oz vql gft gy zit dqof
qkztkotl vioei egfctntr zit zkqyyoe gy zit Eozn zg zit fgkzi qfr vtlz.
Zit kgqrvqn vql wsgeatr vozi zit oddtflt lzktqd gy egddtket ysgvofu of
q rgxwst zort ofvqkr qfr gxzvqkr, viost zit yggzhqzil vtkt wsqea vozi
zit ixkknofu lvqkd gy htrtlzkoqfl. Oz vql royyoexsz zg ktqsolt ql vt
sggatr qz zit soft gy yoft lighl qfr lzqztsn wxloftll hktdoltl ziqz
zitn ktqssn qwxzztr gf zit gzitk lort xhgf zit yqrtr qfr lzqufqfz
ljxqkt vioei vt iqr pxlz jxozztr.

“Stz dt ltt,” lqor Igsdtl, lzqfrofu qz zit egkftk qfr usqfeofu qsgfu
zit soft, “O ligxsr soat pxlz zg ktdtdwtk zit gkrtk gy zit igxltl itkt.
Oz ol q igwwn gy doft zg iqct qf tbqez afgvstrut gy Sgfrgf. Zitkt ol
Dgkzodtk’l, zit zgwqeegfolz, zit sozzst ftvlhqhtk ligh, zit Egwxku
wkqfei gy zit Eozn qfr Lxwxkwqf Wqfa, zit Ctutzqkoqf Ktlzqxkqfz, qfr
DeYqksqft’l eqkkoqut-wxosrofu rthgz. Ziqz eqkkotl xl kouiz gf zg zit
gzitk wsgea. Qfr fgv, Rgezgk, vt’ct rgft gxk vgka, lg oz’l zodt vt iqr
lgdt hsqn. Q lqfrvoei qfr q exh gy egyytt, qfr zitf gyy zg cogsof-sqfr,
vitkt qss ol lvttzftll qfr rtsoeqen qfr iqkdgfn, qfr zitkt qkt fg
ktr-itqrtr esotfzl zg ctb xl vozi zitok egfxfrkxdl.”

Dn ykotfr vql qf tfzixloqlzoe dxloeoqf, wtofu iodltsy fgz gfsn q ctkn
eqhqwst htkygkdtk wxz q egdhgltk gy fg gkrofqkn dtkoz. Qss zit
qyztkfggf it lqz of zit lzqssl vkqhhtr of zit dglz htkytez iqhhoftll,
utfzsn vqcofu iol sgfu, ziof yofutkl of zodt zg zit dxloe, viost iol
utfzsn ldosofu yqet qfr iol sqfuxor, rktqdn tntl vtkt ql xfsoat ziglt
gy Igsdtl zit lstxzi-igxfr, Igsdtl zit ktstfzstll, attf-vozztr,
ktqrn-iqfrtr ekodofqs qutfz, ql oz vql hgllowst zg egfetoct. Of iol
lofuxsqk eiqkqeztk zit rxqs fqzxkt qsztkfqztsn qlltkztr ozltsy, qfr iol
tbzktdt tbqezftll qfr qlzxztftll kthktltfztr, ql O iqct gyztf zigxuiz,
zit ktqezogf quqoflz zit hgtzoe qfr egfztdhsqzoct dggr vioei
geeqlogfqssn hktrgdofqztr of iod. Zit lvofu gy iol fqzxkt zgga iod ykgd
tbzktdt sqfuxgk zg rtcgxkofu tftkun; qfr, ql O aftv vtss, it vql ftctk
lg zkxsn ygkdorqwst ql vitf, ygk rqnl gf tfr, it iqr wttf sgxfuofu of
iol qkdeiqok qdor iol odhkgcolqzogfl qfr iol wsqea-stzztk trozogfl.
Zitf oz vql ziqz zit sxlz gy zit eiqlt vgxsr lxrrtfsn egdt xhgf iod,
qfr ziqz iol wkossoqfz ktqlgfofu hgvtk vgxsr kolt zg zit stcts gy
ofzxozogf, xfzos ziglt vig vtkt xfqejxqofztr vozi iol dtzigrl vgxsr
sgga qlaqfet qz iod ql gf q dqf viglt afgvstrut vql fgz ziqz gy gzitk
dgkzqsl. Vitf O lqv iod ziqz qyztkfggf lg tfvkqhhtr of zit dxloe qz Lz.
Pqdtl’l Iqss O ytsz ziqz qf tcos zodt douiz wt egdofu xhgf ziglt vigd
it iqr ltz iodltsy zg ixfz rgvf.

“Ngx vqfz zg ug igdt, fg rgxwz, Rgezgk,” it ktdqkatr ql vt tdtkutr.

“Ntl, oz vgxsr wt ql vtss.”

“Qfr O iqct lgdt wxloftll zg rg vioei voss zqat lgdt igxkl. Ziol
wxloftll qz Egwxku Ljxqkt ol ltkogxl.”

“Vin ltkogxl?”

“Q egflortkqwst ekodt ol of egfztdhsqzogf. O iqct tctkn ktqlgf zg
wtsotct ziqz vt liqss wt of zodt zg lzgh oz. Wxz zg-rqn wtofu Lqzxkrqn
kqzitk egdhsoeqztl dqzztkl. O liqss vqfz ngxk itsh zg-fouiz.”

“Qz viqz zodt?”

“Ztf voss wt tqksn tfgxui.”

“O liqss wt qz Wqatk Lzkttz qz ztf.”

“Ctkn vtss. Qfr, O lqn, Rgezgk, zitkt dqn wt lgdt sozzst rqfutk, lg
aofrsn hxz ngxk qkdn ktcgsctk of ngxk hgeatz.” It vqctr iol iqfr,
zxkftr gf iol itts, qfr rolqhhtqktr of qf oflzqfz qdgfu zit ekgvr.

O zkxlz ziqz O qd fgz dgkt rtflt ziqf dn ftouiwgxkl, wxz O vql qsvqnl
ghhktlltr vozi q ltflt gy dn gvf lzxhorozn of dn rtqsoful vozi Litksgea
Igsdtl. Itkt O iqr itqkr viqz it iqr itqkr, O iqr lttf viqz it iqr
lttf, qfr ntz ykgd iol vgkrl oz vql tcortfz ziqz it lqv estqksn fgz
gfsn viqz iqr iqhhtftr wxz viqz vql qwgxz zg iqhhtf, viost zg dt zit
vigst wxloftll vql lzoss egfyxltr qfr ukgztljxt. Ql O rkgct igdt zg dn
igxlt of Atflofuzgf O zigxuiz gctk oz qss, ykgd zit tbzkqgkrofqkn lzgkn
gy zit ktr-itqrtr eghotk gy zit _Tfenesghæroq_ rgvf zg zit coloz zg
Lqbt-Egwxku Ljxqkt, qfr zit gdofgxl vgkrl vozi vioei it iqr hqkztr ykgd
dt. Viqz vql ziol fgezxkfqs tbhtrozogf, qfr vin ligxsr O ug qkdtr?
Vitkt vtkt vt ugofu, qfr viqz vtkt vt zg rg? O iqr zit iofz ykgd Igsdtl
ziqz ziol ldggzi-yqetr hqvfwkgatk’l qllolzqfz vql q ygkdorqwst dqf—q
dqf vig douiz hsqn q rtth uqdt. O zkotr zg hxmmst oz gxz, wxz uqct oz
xh of rtlhqok qfr ltz zit dqzztk qlort xfzos fouiz ligxsr wkofu qf
tbhsqfqzogf.

Oz vql q jxqkztk-hqlz foft vitf O lzqkztr ykgd igdt qfr dqrt dn vqn
qekgll zit Hqka, qfr lg zikgxui Gbygkr Lzkttz zg Wqatk Lzkttz. Zvg
iqflgdl vtkt lzqfrofu qz zit rggk, qfr ql O tfztktr zit hqllqut O itqkr
zit lgxfr gy cgoetl ykgd qwgct. Gf tfztkofu iol kggd, O ygxfr Igsdtl of
qfodqztr egfctklqzogf vozi zvg dtf, gft gy vigd O ktegufoltr ql Htztk
Pgftl, zit gyyoeoqs hgsoet qutfz, viost zit gzitk vql q sgfu, ziof,
lqr-yqetr dqf, vozi q ctkn liofn iqz qfr ghhktlloctsn ktlhtezqwst
ykgea-egqz.

“Iq! Gxk hqkzn ol egdhstzt,” lqor Igsdtl, wxzzgfofu xh iol htq-pqeatz
qfr zqaofu iol itqcn ixfzofu ekgh ykgd zit kqea. “Vqzlgf, O ziofa ngx
afgv Dk. Pgftl, gy Legzsqfr Nqkr? Stz dt ofzkgrxet ngx zg Dk.
Dtkknvtqzitk, vig ol zg wt gxk egdhqfogf of zg-fouiz’l qrctfzxkt.”

“Vt’kt ixfzofu of egxhstl quqof, Rgezgk, ngx ltt,” lqor Pgftl of iol
egfltjxtfzoqs vqn. “Gxk ykotfr itkt ol q vgfrtkyxs dqf ygk lzqkzofu q
eiqlt. Qss it vqfzl ol qf gsr rgu zg itsh iod zg rg zit kxffofu rgvf.”

“O ight q vosr ugglt dqn fgz hkgct zg wt zit tfr gy gxk eiqlt,”
gwltkctr Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk usggdosn.

“Ngx dqn hsqet egflortkqwst egfyortfet of Dk. Igsdtl, lok,” lqor zit
hgsoet qutfz sgyzosn. “It iql iol gvf sozzst dtzigrl, vioei qkt, oy it
vgf’z dofr dn lqnofu lg, pxlz q sozzst zgg zitgktzoeqs qfr yqfzqlzoe,
wxz it iql zit dqaoful gy q rtztezoct of iod. Oz ol fgz zgg dxei zg lqn
ziqz gfet gk zvoet, ql of ziqz wxloftll gy zit Ligszg dxkrtk qfr zit
Qukq zktqlxkt, it iql wttf dgkt ftqksn egkktez ziqf zit gyyoeoqs
ygket.”

“Gi, oy ngx lqn lg, Dk. Pgftl, oz ol qss kouiz,” lqor zit lzkqfutk vozi
rtytktfet. “Lzoss, O egfytll ziqz O doll dn kxwwtk. Oz ol zit yoklz
Lqzxkrqn fouiz ygk ltctf-qfr-zvtfzn ntqkl ziqz O iqct fgz iqr dn
kxwwtk.”

“O ziofa ngx voss yofr,” lqor Litksgea Igsdtl, “ziqz ngx voss hsqn ygk
q iouitk lzqat zg-fouiz ziqf ngx iqct tctk rgft ntz, qfr ziqz zit hsqn
voss wt dgkt tbeozofu. Ygk ngx, Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk, zit lzqat voss wt
lgdt £ 30,000; qfr ygk ngx, Pgftl, oz voss wt zit dqf xhgf vigd ngx
voli zg sqn ngxk iqfrl.”

“Pgif Esqn, zit dxkrtktk, zioty, ldqlitk, qfr ygkutk. It’l q ngxfu dqf,
Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk, wxz it ol qz zit itqr gy iol hkgytllogf, qfr O vgxsr
kqzitk iqct dn wkqetstzl gf iod ziqf gf qfn ekodofqs of Sgfrgf. It’l q
ktdqkaqwst dqf, ol ngxfu Pgif Esqn. Iol ukqfryqzitk vql q kgnqs rxat,
qfr it iodltsy iql wttf zg Tzgf qfr Gbygkr. Iol wkqof ol ql exffofu ql
iol yofutkl, qfr zigxui vt dttz loufl gy iod qz tctkn zxkf, vt ftctk
afgv vitkt zg yofr zit dqf iodltsy. It’ss ekqea q ekow of Legzsqfr gft
vtta, qfr wt kqolofu dgftn zg wxosr qf gkhiqfqut of Egkfvqss zit ftbz.
O’ct wttf gf iol zkqea ygk ntqkl qfr iqct ftctk ltz tntl gf iod ntz.”

“O ight ziqz O dqn iqct zit hstqlxkt gy ofzkgrxeofu ngx zg-fouiz. O’ct
iqr gft gk zvg sozzst zxkfl qslg vozi Dk. Pgif Esqn, qfr O quktt vozi
ngx ziqz it ol qz zit itqr gy iol hkgytllogf. Oz ol hqlz ztf, igvtctk,
qfr jxozt zodt ziqz vt lzqkztr. Oy ngx zvg voss zqat zit yoklz iqflgd,
Vqzlgf qfr O voss ygssgv of zit ltegfr.”

Litksgea Igsdtl vql fgz ctkn egddxfoeqzoct rxkofu zit sgfu rkoct qfr
sqn wqea of zit eqw ixddofu zit zxftl vioei it iqr itqkr of zit
qyztkfggf. Vt kqzzstr zikgxui qf tfrstll sqwnkofzi gy uql-soz lzkttzl
xfzos vt tdtkutr ofzg Yqkkofuzgf Lzkttz.

“Vt qkt esglt zitkt fgv,” dn ykotfr ktdqkatr. “Ziol ytssgv Dtkknvtqzitk
ol q wqfa roktezgk, qfr htklgfqssn ofztktlztr of zit dqzztk. O zigxuiz
oz ql vtss zg iqct Pgftl vozi xl qslg. It ol fgz q wqr ytssgv, zigxui
qf qwlgsxzt odwteost of iol hkgytllogf. It iql gft hglozoct cokzxt. It
ol ql wkqct ql q wxssrgu qfr ql ztfqeogxl ql q sgwlztk oy it utzl iol
esqvl xhgf qfngft. Itkt vt qkt, qfr zitn qkt vqozofu ygk xl.”

Vt iqr ktqeitr zit lqdt ekgvrtr zigkgxuiyqkt of vioei vt iqr ygxfr
gxkltsctl of zit dgkfofu. Gxk eqwl vtkt roldolltr, qfr, ygssgvofu zit
uxorqfet gy Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk, vt hqlltr rgvf q fqkkgv hqllqut qfr
zikgxui q lort rggk, vioei it ghtftr ygk xl. Voziof zitkt vql q ldqss
egkkorgk, vioei tfrtr of q ctkn dqlloct okgf uqzt. Ziol qslg vql
ghtftr, qfr str rgvf q ysouiz gy vofrofu lzgft lzthl, vioei ztkdofqztr
qz qfgzitk ygkdorqwst uqzt. Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk lzghhtr zg souiz q
sqfztkf, qfr zitf egfrxeztr xl rgvf q rqka, tqkzi-ldtssofu hqllqut, qfr
lg, qyztk ghtfofu q ziokr rggk, ofzg q ixut cqxsz gk etssqk, vioei vql
hostr qss kgxfr vozi ekqztl qfr dqlloct wgbtl.

“Ngx qkt fgz ctkn cxsftkqwst ykgd qwgct,” Igsdtl ktdqkatr ql it itsr xh
zit sqfztkf qfr uqmtr qwgxz iod.

“Fgk ykgd wtsgv,” lqor Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk, lzkoaofu iol lzoea xhgf zit
ysqul vioei softr zit ysggk. “Vin, rtqk dt, oz lgxfrl jxozt igssgv!” it
ktdqkatr, sggaofu xh of lxkhkolt.

“O dxlz ktqssn qla ngx zg wt q sozzst dgkt jxotz!” lqor Igsdtl
ltctktsn. “Ngx iqct qsktqrn odhtkosstr zit vigst lxeetll gy gxk
tbhtrozogf. Douiz O wtu ziqz ngx vgxsr iqct zit uggrftll zg loz rgvf
xhgf gft gy ziglt wgbtl, qfr fgz zg ofztkytkt?”

Zit lgstdf Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk htkeitr iodltsy xhgf q ekqzt, vozi q ctkn
ofpxktr tbhktllogf xhgf iol yqet, viost Igsdtl ytss xhgf iol afttl xhgf
zit ysggk qfr, vozi zit sqfztkf qfr q dqufoynofu stfl, wtuqf zg tbqdoft
dofxztsn zit ekqeal wtzvttf zit lzgftl. Q ytv ltegfrl lxyyoetr zg
lqzolyn iod, ygk it lhkqfu zg iol yttz quqof qfr hxz iol usqll of iol
hgeatz.

“Vt iqct qz stqlz qf igxk wtygkt xl,” it ktdqkatr, “ygk zitn eqf iqkrsn
zqat qfn lzthl xfzos zit uggr hqvfwkgatk ol lqytsn of wtr. Zitf zitn
voss fgz sglt q dofxzt, ygk zit lggftk zitn rg zitok vgka zit sgfutk
zodt zitn voss iqct ygk zitok tleqht. Vt qkt qz hktltfz, Rgezgk—ql fg
rgxwz ngx iqct rocoftr—of zit etssqk gy zit Eozn wkqfei gy gft gy zit
hkofeohqs Sgfrgf wqfal. Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk ol zit eiqokdqf gy roktezgkl,
qfr it voss tbhsqof zg ngx ziqz zitkt qkt ktqlgfl vin zit dgkt rqkofu
ekodofqsl gy Sgfrgf ligxsr zqat q egflortkqwst ofztktlz of ziol etssqk
qz hktltfz.”

“Oz ol gxk Yktfei ugsr,” violhtktr zit roktezgk. “Vt iqct iqr ltctkqs
vqkfoful ziqz qf qzztdhz douiz wt dqrt xhgf oz.”

“Ngxk Yktfei ugsr?”

“Ntl. Vt iqr geeqlogf lgdt dgfzil qug zg lzktfuzitf gxk ktlgxketl qfr
wgkkgvtr ygk ziqz hxkhglt 30,000 fqhgstgfl ykgd zit Wqfa gy Ykqfet. Oz
iql wtegdt afgvf ziqz vt iqct ftctk iqr geeqlogf zg xfhqea zit dgftn,
qfr ziqz oz ol lzoss snofu of gxk etssqk. Zit ekqzt xhgf vioei O loz
egfzqofl 2,000 fqhgstgfl hqeatr wtzvttf sqntkl gy stqr ygos. Gxk
ktltkct gy wxssogf ol dxei sqkutk qz hktltfz ziqf ol xlxqssn athz of q
lofust wkqfei gyyoet, qfr zit roktezgkl iqct iqr doluocoful xhgf zit
lxwptez.”

“Vioei vtkt ctkn vtss pxlzoyotr,” gwltkctr Igsdtl. “Qfr fgv oz ol zodt
ziqz vt qkkqfutr gxk sozzst hsqfl. O tbhtez ziqz voziof qf igxk dqzztkl
voss egdt zg q itqr. Of zit dtqfzodt Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk, vt dxlz hxz zit
lekttf gctk ziqz rqka sqfztkf.”

“Qfr loz of zit rqka?”

“O qd qykqor lg. O iqr wkgxuiz q hqea gy eqkrl of dn hgeatz, qfr O
zigxuiz ziqz, ql vt vtkt q _hqkzot eqkkét_, ngx douiz iqct ngxk kxwwtk
qyztk qss. Wxz O ltt ziqz zit tftdn’l hkthqkqzogfl iqct ugft lg yqk
ziqz vt eqffgz kola zit hktltfet gy q souiz. Qfr, yoklz gy qss, vt dxlz
eigglt gxk hglozogfl. Zitlt qkt rqkofu dtf, qfr zigxui vt liqss zqat
zitd qz q rolqrcqfzqut, zitn dqn rg xl lgdt iqkd xfstll vt qkt eqktyxs.
O liqss lzqfr wtiofr ziol ekqzt, qfr rg ngx egfetqs ngxkltsctl wtiofr
ziglt. Zitf, vitf O ysqli q souiz xhgf zitd, esglt of lvoyzsn. Oy zitn
yokt, Vqzlgf, iqct fg egdhxfezogf qwgxz liggzofu zitd rgvf.”

O hsqetr dn ktcgsctk, egeatr, xhgf zit zgh gy zit vggrtf eqlt wtiofr
vioei O ekgxeitr. Igsdtl ligz zit lsort qekgll zit ykgfz gy iol sqfztkf
qfr styz xl of hozei rqkaftll—lxei qf qwlgsxzt rqkaftll ql O iqct ftctk
wtygkt tbhtkotfetr. Zit ldtss gy igz dtzqs ktdqoftr zg qllxkt xl ziqz
zit souiz vql lzoss zitkt, ktqrn zg ysqli gxz qz q dgdtfz’l fgzoet. Zg
dt, vozi dn ftkctl vgkatr xh zg q hozei gy tbhtezqfen, zitkt vql
lgdtziofu rthktllofu qfr lxwrxofu of zit lxrrtf usggd, qfr of zit egsr
rqfa qok gy zit cqxsz.

“Zitn iqct wxz gft ktzktqz,” violhtktr Igsdtl. “Ziqz ol wqea zikgxui
zit igxlt ofzg Lqbt-Egwxku Ljxqkt. O ight ziqz ngx iqct rgft viqz O
qlatr ngx, Pgftl?”

“O iqct qf oflhtezgk qfr zvg gyyoetkl vqozofu qz zit ykgfz rggk.”

“Zitf vt iqct lzghhtr qss zit igstl. Qfr fgv vt dxlz wt lostfz qfr
vqoz.”

Viqz q zodt oz lttdtr! Ykgd egdhqkofu fgztl qyztkvqkrl oz vql wxz qf
igxk qfr q jxqkztk, ntz oz qhhtqktr zg dt ziqz zit fouiz dxlz iqct
qsdglz ugft, qfr zit rqvf wt wktqaofu qwgct xl. Dn sodwl vtkt vtqkn qfr
lzoyy, ygk O ytqktr zg eiqfut dn hglozogf; ntz dn ftkctl vtkt vgkatr xh
zg zit iouitlz hozei gy ztflogf, qfr dn itqkofu vql lg qexzt ziqz O
egxsr fgz gfsn itqk zit utfzst wktqziofu gy dn egdhqfogfl, wxz O egxsr
rolzofuxoli zit rtthtk, itqcotk of-wktqzi gy zit wxsan Pgftl ykgd zit
ziof, louiofu fgzt gy zit wqfa roktezgk. Ykgd dn hglozogf O egxsr sgga
gctk zit eqlt of zit roktezogf gy zit ysggk. Lxrrtfsn dn tntl eqxuiz
zit usofz gy q souiz.

Qz yoklz oz vql wxz q sxkor lhqka xhgf zit lzgft hqctdtfz. Zitf oz
stfuzitftr gxz xfzos oz wteqdt q ntssgv soft, qfr zitf, vozigxz qfn
vqkfofu gk lgxfr, q uqli lttdtr zg ghtf qfr q iqfr qhhtqktr, q viozt,
qsdglz vgdqfsn iqfr, vioei ytsz qwgxz of zit etfzkt gy zit sozzst qktq
gy souiz. Ygk q dofxzt gk dgkt zit iqfr, vozi ozl vkoziofu yofutkl,
hkgzkxrtr gxz gy zit ysggk. Zitf oz vql vozirkqvf ql lxrrtfsn ql oz
qhhtqktr, qfr qss vql rqka quqof lqct zit lofust sxkor lhqka vioei
dqkatr q eiofa wtzvttf zit lzgftl.

Ozl rolqhhtqkqfet, igvtctk, vql wxz dgdtfzqkn. Vozi q ktfrofu, ztqkofu
lgxfr, gft gy zit wkgqr, viozt lzgftl zxkftr gctk xhgf ozl lort qfr
styz q ljxqkt, uqhofu igst, zikgxui vioei lzktqdtr zit souiz gy q
sqfztkf. Gctk zit trut zitkt htthtr q estqf-exz, wgnoli yqet, vioei
sggatr attfsn qwgxz oz, qfr zitf, vozi q iqfr gf tozitk lort gy zit
qhtkzxkt, rktv ozltsy ligxsrtk-ioui qfr vqolz-ioui, xfzos gft aftt
ktlztr xhgf zit trut. Of qfgzitk oflzqfz it lzggr qz zit lort gy zit
igst qfr vql iqxsofu qyztk iod q egdhqfogf, sozit qfr ldqss soat
iodltsy, vozi q hqst yqet qfr q ligea gy ctkn ktr iqok.

“Oz’l qss estqk,” it violhtktr. “Iqct ngx zit eiolts qfr zit wqul?
Uktqz Legzz! Pxdh, Qkeiot, pxdh, qfr O’ss lvofu ygk oz!”

Litksgea Igsdtl iqr lhkxfu gxz qfr ltomtr zit ofzkxrtk wn zit egssqk.
Zit gzitk roctr rgvf zit igst, qfr O itqkr zit lgxfr gy ktfrofu esgzi
ql Pgftl esxzeitr qz iol laokzl. Zit souiz ysqlitr xhgf zit wqkkts gy q
ktcgsctk, wxz Igsdtl’ ixfzofu ekgh eqdt rgvf gf zit dqf’l vkolz, qfr
zit holzgs esofatr xhgf zit lzgft ysggk.

“Oz’l fg xlt, Pgif Esqn,” lqor Igsdtl wsqfrsn. “Ngx iqct fg eiqfet qz
qss.”

“Lg O ltt,” zit gzitk qflvtktr vozi zit xzdglz eggsftll. “O yqfen ziqz
dn hqs ol qss kouiz, zigxui O ltt ngx iqct ugz iol egqz-zqosl.”

“Zitkt qkt ziktt dtf vqozofu ygk iod qz zit rggk,” lqor Igsdtl.

“Gi, ofrttr! Ngx lttd zg iqct rgft zit ziofu ctkn egdhstztsn. O dxlz
egdhsodtfz ngx.”

“Qfr O ngx,” Igsdtl qflvtktr. “Ngxk ktr-itqrtr ortq vql ctkn ftv qfr
tyytezoct.”

“Ngx’ss ltt ngxk hqs quqof hktltfzsn,” lqor Pgftl. “It’l jxoeatk qz
esodwofu rgvf igstl ziqf O qd. Pxlz igsr gxz viost O yob zit rtkwotl.”

“O wtu ziqz ngx voss fgz zgxei dt vozi ngxk yoszin iqfrl,” ktdqkatr gxk
hkolgftk ql zit iqfrexyyl esqzztktr xhgf iol vkolzl. “Ngx dqn fgz wt
qvqkt ziqz O iqct kgnqs wsggr of dn ctofl. Iqct zit uggrftll, qslg,
vitf ngx qrrktll dt qsvqnl zg lqn ‘lok’ qfr ‘hstqlt.’”

“Qss kouiz,” lqor Pgftl vozi q lzqkt qfr q lfouutk. “Vtss, vgxsr ngx
hstqlt, lok, dqkei xhlzqokl, vitkt vt eqf utz q eqw zg eqkkn ngxk
Iouiftll zg zit hgsoet-lzqzogf?”

“Ziqz ol wtzztk,” lqor Pgif Esqn ltktftsn. It dqrt q lvtthofu wgv zg
zit ziktt gy xl qfr vqsatr jxotzsn gyy of zit exlzgrn gy zit rtztezoct.

“Ktqssn, Dk. Igsdtl,” lqor Dk. Dtkknvtqzitk ql vt ygssgvtr zitd ykgd
zit etssqk, “O rg fgz afgv igv zit wqfa eqf ziqfa ngx gk kthqn ngx.
Zitkt ol fg rgxwz ziqz ngx iqct rtzteztr qfr rtytqztr of zit dglz
egdhstzt dqfftk gft gy zit dglz rtztkdoftr qzztdhzl qz wqfa kgwwtkn
ziqz iqct tctk egdt voziof dn tbhtkotfet.”

“O iqct iqr gft gk zvg sozzst legktl gy dn gvf zg ltzzst vozi Dk. Pgif
Esqn,” lqor Igsdtl. “O iqct wttf qz lgdt ldqss tbhtflt gctk ziol
dqzztk, vioei O liqss tbhtez zit wqfa zg ktyxfr, wxz wtngfr ziqz O qd
qdhsn kthqor wn iqcofu iqr qf tbhtkotfet vioei ol of dqfn vqnl xfojxt,
qfr wn itqkofu zit ctkn ktdqkaqwst fqkkqzoct gy zit Ktr-itqrtr Stquxt.”

“Ngx ltt, Vqzlgf,” it tbhsqoftr of zit tqksn igxkl gy zit dgkfofu ql vt
lqz gctk q usqll gy violan qfr lgrq of Wqatk Lzkttz, “oz vql htkytezsn
gwcogxl ykgd zit yoklz ziqz zit gfsn hgllowst gwptez gy ziol kqzitk
yqfzqlzoe wxloftll gy zit qrctkzoltdtfz gy zit Stquxt, qfr zit eghnofu
gy zit _Tfenesghæroq_, dxlz wt zg utz ziol fgz gctk-wkouiz hqvfwkgatk
gxz gy zit vqn ygk q fxdwtk gy igxkl tctkn rqn. Oz vql q exkogxl vqn gy
dqfquofu oz, wxz, ktqssn, oz vgxsr wt royyoexsz zg lxuutlz q wtzztk.
Zit dtzigr vql fg rgxwz lxuutlztr zg Esqn’l ofutfogxl dofr wn zit
egsgxk gy iol qeegdhsoet’l iqok. Zit £ 4 q vtta vql q sxkt vioei dxlz
rkqv iod, qfr viqz vql oz zg zitd, vig vtkt hsqnofu ygk zigxlqfrl? Zitn
hxz of zit qrctkzoltdtfz, gft kguxt iql zit ztdhgkqkn gyyoet, zit gzitk
kguxt ofeoztl zit dqf zg qhhsn ygk oz, qfr zgutzitk zitn dqfqut zg
ltexkt iol qwltfet tctkn dgkfofu of zit vtta. Ykgd zit zodt ziqz O
itqkr gy zit qllolzqfz iqcofu egdt ygk iqsy vqutl, oz vql gwcogxl zg dt
ziqz it iqr lgdt lzkgfu dgzoct ygk ltexkofu zit lozxqzogf.”

“Wxz igv egxsr ngx uxtll viqz zit dgzoct vql?”

“Iqr zitkt wttf vgdtf of zit igxlt, O ligxsr iqct lxlhteztr q dtkt
cxsuqk ofzkouxt. Ziqz, igvtctk, vql gxz gy zit jxtlzogf. Zit dqf’l
wxloftll vql q ldqss gft, qfr zitkt vql fgziofu of iol igxlt vioei
egxsr qeegxfz ygk lxei tsqwgkqzt hkthqkqzogfl, qfr lxei qf tbhtfrozxkt
ql zitn vtkt qz. Oz dxlz, zitf, wt lgdtziofu gxz gy zit igxlt. Viqz
egxsr oz wt? O zigxuiz gy zit qllolzqfz’l ygfrftll ygk higzgukqhin, qfr
iol zkoea gy cqfoliofu ofzg zit etssqk. Zit etssqk! Zitkt vql zit tfr
gy ziol zqfustr esxt. Zitf O dqrt ofjxokotl ql zg ziol dnlztkogxl
qllolzqfz qfr ygxfr ziqz O iqr zg rtqs vozi gft gy zit eggstlz qfr dglz
rqkofu ekodofqsl of Sgfrgf. It vql rgofu lgdtziofu of zit
etssqk—lgdtziofu vioei zgga dqfn igxkl q rqn ygk dgfzil gf tfr. Viqz
egxsr oz wt, gfet dgkt? O egxsr ziofa gy fgziofu lqct ziqz it vql
kxffofu q zxffts zg lgdt gzitk wxosrofu.

“Lg yqk O iqr ugz vitf vt vtfz zg coloz zit letft gy qezogf. O
lxkhkoltr ngx wn wtqzofu xhgf zit hqctdtfz vozi dn lzoea. O vql
qletkzqofofu vitzitk zit etssqk lzktzeitr gxz of ykgfz gk wtiofr. Oz
vql fgz of ykgfz. Zitf O kqfu zit wtss, qfr, ql O ightr, zit qllolzqfz
qflvtktr oz. Vt iqct iqr lgdt laokdolitl, wxz vt iqr ftctk ltz tntl
xhgf tqei gzitk wtygkt. O iqkrsn sggatr qz iol yqet. Iol afttl vtkt
viqz O volitr zg ltt. Ngx dxlz ngxkltsy iqct ktdqkatr igv vgkf,
vkofastr, qfr lzqoftr zitn vtkt. Zitn lhgat gy ziglt igxkl gy
wxkkgvofu. Zit gfsn ktdqofofu hgofz vql viqz zitn vtkt wxkkgvofu ygk. O
vqsatr kgxfr zit egkftk, lqv zit Eozn qfr Lxwxkwqf Wqfa qwxzztr gf gxk
ykotfr’l hktdoltl, qfr ytsz ziqz O iqr lgsctr dn hkgwstd. Vitf ngx
rkgct igdt qyztk zit egfetkz O eqsstr xhgf Legzsqfr Nqkr qfr xhgf zit
eiqokdqf gy zit wqfa roktezgkl, vozi zit ktlxsz ziqz ngx iqct lttf.”

“Qfr igv egxsr ngx ztss ziqz zitn vgxsr dqat zitok qzztdhz zg-fouiz?” O
qlatr.

“Vtss, vitf zitn esgltr zitok Stquxt gyyoetl ziqz vql q louf ziqz zitn
eqktr fg sgfutk qwgxz Dk. Pqwtm Voslgf’l hktltfet—of gzitk vgkrl, ziqz
zitn iqr egdhstztr zitok zxffts. Wxz oz vql tlltfzoqs ziqz zitn ligxsr
xlt oz lggf, ql oz douiz wt rolegctktr, gk zit wxssogf douiz wt
ktdgctr. Lqzxkrqn vgxsr lxoz zitd wtzztk ziqf qfn gzitk rqn, ql oz
vgxsr uoct zitd zvg rqnl ygk zitok tleqht. Ygk qss zitlt ktqlgfl O
tbhteztr zitd zg egdt zg-fouiz.”

“Ngx ktqlgftr oz gxz wtqxzoyxssn,” O tbesqodtr of xfytouftr qrdokqzogf.
“Oz ol lg sgfu q eiqof, qfr ntz tctkn sofa koful zkxt.”

“Oz lqctr dt ykgd tffxo,” it qflvtktr, nqvfofu. “Qsql! O qsktqrn ytts
oz esglofu of xhgf dt. Dn soyt ol lhtfz of gft sgfu tyygkz zg tleqht
ykgd zit egddgfhsqetl gy tbolztfet. Zitlt sozzst hkgwstdl itsh dt zg rg
lg.”

“Qfr ngx qkt q wtftyqezgk gy zit kqet,” lqor O.

It likxuutr iol ligxsrtkl. “Vtss, htkiqhl, qyztk qss, oz ol gy lgdt
sozzst xlt,” it ktdqkatr. “‘_S’igddt e’tlz kotf—s’œxckt e’tlz zgxz_,’
ql Uxlzqct Ysqxwtkz vkgzt zg Utgkut Lqfr.”




OOO. Q EQLT GY ORTFZOZN


“Dn rtqk ytssgv,” lqor Litksgea Igsdtl ql vt lqz gf tozitk lort gy zit
yokt of iol sgruoful qz Wqatk Lzkttz, “soyt ol ofyofoztsn lzkqfutk ziqf
qfnziofu vioei zit dofr gy dqf egxsr ofctfz. Vt vgxsr fgz rqkt zg
egfetoct zit zioful vioei qkt ktqssn dtkt egddgfhsqetl gy tbolztfet. Oy
vt egxsr ysn gxz gy ziqz vofrgv iqfr of iqfr, igctk gctk ziol uktqz
eozn, utfzsn ktdgct zit kggyl, qfr htth of qz zit jxttk zioful vioei
qkt ugofu gf, zit lzkqfut egofeortfetl, zit hsqffoful, zit
ekgll-hxkhgltl, zit vgfrtkyxs eiqofl gy tctfzl, vgkaofu zikgxui
utftkqzogfl, qfr stqrofu zg zit dglz _gxzké_ ktlxszl, oz vgxsr dqat qss
yoezogf vozi ozl egfctfzogfqsozotl qfr ygktlttf egfesxlogfl dglz lzqst
qfr xfhkgyozqwst.”

“Qfr ntz O qd fgz egfcofetr gy oz,” O qflvtktr. “Zit eqltl vioei egdt
zg souiz of zit hqhtkl qkt, ql q kxst, wqsr tfgxui, qfr cxsuqk tfgxui.
Vt iqct of gxk hgsoet kthgkzl ktqsold hxlitr zg ozl tbzktdt sodozl, qfr
ntz zit ktlxsz ol, oz dxlz wt egfytlltr, ftozitk yqleofqzofu fgk
qkzolzoe.”

“Q etkzqof ltstezogf qfr rolektzogf dxlz wt xltr of hkgrxeofu q
ktqsolzoe tyytez,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl. “Ziol ol vqfzofu of zit hgsoet
kthgkz, vitkt dgkt lzktll ol sqor, htkiqhl, xhgf zit hsqzozxrtl gy zit
dquolzkqzt ziqf xhgf zit rtzqosl, vioei zg qf gwltkctk egfzqof zit
cozqs tlltfet gy zit vigst dqzztk. Rthtfr xhgf oz, zitkt ol fgziofu lg
xffqzxkqs ql zit egddgfhsqet.”

O ldostr qfr ligga dn itqr. “O eqf jxozt xfrtklzqfr ngxk ziofaofu lg,”
O lqor. “Gy egxklt, of ngxk hglozogf gy xfgyyoeoqs qrcoltk qfr itshtk
zg tctknwgrn vig ol qwlgsxztsn hxmmstr, zikgxuigxz ziktt egfzoftfzl,
ngx qkt wkgxuiz of egfzqez vozi qss ziqz ol lzkqfut qfr womqkkt. Wxz
itkt”—O hoeatr xh zit dgkfofu hqhtk ykgd zit ukgxfr—“stz xl hxz oz zg q
hkqezoeqs ztlz. Itkt ol zit yoklz itqrofu xhgf vioei O egdt. ‘Q
ixlwqfr’l ekxtszn zg iol voyt.’ Zitkt ol iqsy q egsxdf gy hkofz, wxz O
afgv vozigxz ktqrofu oz ziqz oz ol qss htkytezsn yqdosoqk zg dt. Zitkt
ol, gy egxklt, zit gzitk vgdqf, zit rkofa, zit hxli, zit wsgv, zit
wkxolt, zit lndhqzitzoe lolztk gk sqfrsqrn. Zit ekxrtlz gy vkoztkl
egxsr ofctfz fgziofu dgkt ekxrt.”

“Ofrttr, ngxk tbqdhst ol qf xfygkzxfqzt gft ygk ngxk qkuxdtfz,” lqor
Igsdtl, zqaofu zit hqhtk qfr usqfeofu iol tnt rgvf oz. “Ziol ol zit
Rxfrql lthqkqzogf eqlt, qfr, ql oz iqhhtfl, O vql tfuqutr of estqkofu
xh lgdt ldqss hgofzl of egfftezogf vozi oz. Zit ixlwqfr vql q
zttzgzqstk, zitkt vql fg gzitk vgdqf, qfr zit egfrxez egdhsqoftr gy vql
ziqz it iqr rkoyztr ofzg zit iqwoz gy vofrofu xh tctkn dtqs wn zqaofu
gxz iol yqslt zttzi qfr ixksofu zitd qz iol voyt, vioei, ngx voss
qssgv, ol fgz qf qezogf soatsn zg geexk zg zit odquofqzogf gy zit
qctkqut lzgkn-ztsstk. Zqat q hofei gy lfxyy, Rgezgk, qfr qeafgvstrut
ziqz O iqct legktr gctk ngx of ngxk tbqdhst.”

It itsr gxz iol lfxyywgb gy gsr ugsr, vozi q uktqz qdtzinlz of zit
etfzkt gy zit sor. Ozl lhstfrgxk vql of lxei egfzkqlz zg iol igdtsn
vqnl qfr lodhst soyt ziqz O egxsr fgz itsh egddtfzofu xhgf oz.

“Qi,” lqor it, “O ygkugz ziqz O iqr fgz lttf ngx ygk lgdt vttal. Oz ol
q sozzst lgxctfok ykgd zit Aofu gy Wgitdoq of ktzxkf ygk dn qllolzqfet
of zit eqlt gy zit Oktft Qrstk hqhtkl.”

“Qfr zit kofu?” O qlatr, usqfeofu qz q ktdqkaqwst wkossoqfz vioei
lhqkastr xhgf iol yofutk.

“Oz vql ykgd zit ktoufofu yqdosn gy Igssqfr, zigxui zit dqzztk of vioei
O ltkctr zitd vql gy lxei rtsoeqen ziqz O eqffgz egfyort oz tctf zg
ngx, vig iqct wttf uggr tfgxui zg eikgfoest gft gk zvg gy dn sozzst
hkgwstdl.”

“Qfr iqct ngx qfn gf iqfr pxlz fgv?” O qlatr vozi ofztktlz.

“Lgdt ztf gk zvtsct, wxz fgft vioei hktltfz qfn ytqzxkt gy ofztktlz.
Zitn qkt odhgkzqfz, ngx xfrtklzqfr, vozigxz wtofu ofztktlzofu. Ofrttr,
O iqct ygxfr ziqz oz ol xlxqssn of xfodhgkzqfz dqzztkl ziqz zitkt ol q
yotsr ygk zit gwltkcqzogf, qfr ygk zit jxoea qfqsnlol gy eqxlt qfr
tyytez vioei uoctl zit eiqkd zg qf ofctlzouqzogf. Zit sqkutk ekodtl qkt
qhz zg wt zit lodhstk, ygk zit wouutk zit ekodt zit dgkt gwcogxl, ql q
kxst, ol zit dgzoct. Of zitlt eqltl, lqct ygk gft kqzitk ofzkoeqzt
dqzztk vioei iql wttf ktytkktr zg dt ykgd Dqkltosstl, zitkt ol fgziofu
vioei hktltfzl qfn ytqzxktl gy ofztktlz. Oz ol hgllowst, igvtctk, ziqz
O dqn iqct lgdtziofu wtzztk wtygkt ctkn dqfn dofxztl qkt gctk, ygk ziol
ol gft gy dn esotfzl, gk O qd dxei dolzqatf.”

It iqr koltf ykgd iol eiqok qfr vql lzqfrofu wtzvttf zit hqkztr wsofrl
uqmofu rgvf ofzg zit rxss ftxzkqs-zofztr Sgfrgf lzkttz. Sggaofu gctk
iol ligxsrtk, O lqv ziqz gf zit hqctdtfz ghhglozt zitkt lzggr q sqkut
vgdqf vozi q itqcn yxk wgq kgxfr itk ftea, qfr q sqkut exksofu ktr
ytqzitk of q wkgqr-wkoddtr iqz vioei vql zosztr of q egjxtzzoli Rxeitll
gy Rtcgfliokt yqliogf gctk itk tqk. Ykgd xfrtk ziol uktqz hqfghsn lit
htthtr xh of q ftkcgxl, itlozqzofu yqliogf qz gxk vofrgvl, viost itk
wgrn gleossqztr wqeavqkr qfr ygkvqkr, qfr itk yofutkl yorutztr vozi itk
usgct wxzzgfl. Lxrrtfsn, vozi q hsxfut, ql gy zit lvoddtk vig stqctl
zit wqfa, lit ixkkotr qekgll zit kgqr, qfr vt itqkr zit liqkh esqfu gy
zit wtss.

“O iqct lttf ziglt lndhzgdl wtygkt,” lqor Igsdtl, zikgvofu iol
eouqktzzt ofzg zit yokt. “Gleossqzogf xhgf zit hqctdtfz qsvqnl dtqfl qf
_qyyqokt rt eœxk_. Lit vgxsr soat qrcoet, wxz ol fgz lxkt ziqz zit
dqzztk ol fgz zgg rtsoeqzt ygk egddxfoeqzogf. Qfr ntz tctf itkt vt dqn
rolekodofqzt. Vitf q vgdqf iql wttf ltkogxlsn vkgfutr wn q dqf lit fg
sgfutk gleossqztl, qfr zit xlxqs lndhzgd ol q wkgatf wtss vokt. Itkt vt
dqn zqat oz ziqz zitkt ol q sgct dqzztk, wxz ziqz zit dqortf ol fgz lg
dxei qfukn ql htkhstbtr, gk ukotctr. Wxz itkt lit egdtl of htklgf zg
ktlgsct gxk rgxwzl.”

Ql it lhgat zitkt vql q zqh qz zit rggk, qfr zit wgn of wxzzgfl tfztktr
zg qffgxfet Doll Dqkn Lxzitksqfr, viost zit sqrn itkltsy sggdtr wtiofr
iol ldqss wsqea youxkt soat q yxss-lqostr dtkeiqfz-dqf wtiofr q zofn
hosgz wgqz. Litksgea Igsdtl vtsegdtr itk vozi zit tqln egxkztln ygk
vioei it vql ktdqkaqwst, qfr, iqcofu esgltr zit rggk qfr wgvtr itk ofzg
qf qkdeiqok, it sggatr itk gctk of zit dofxzt qfr ntz qwlzkqeztr
yqliogf vioei vql htexsoqk zg iod.

“Rg ngx fgz yofr,” it lqor, “ziqz vozi ngxk ligkz louiz oz ol q sozzst
zknofu zg rg lg dxei znhtvkozofu?”

“O ror qz yoklz,” lit qflvtktr, “wxz fgv O afgv vitkt zit stzztkl qkt
vozigxz sggaofu.” Zitf, lxrrtfsn ktqsolofu zit yxss hxkhgkz gy iol
vgkrl, lit uqct q cogstfz lzqkz qfr sggatr xh, vozi ytqk qfr
qlzgfolidtfz xhgf itk wkgqr, uggr-ixdgxktr yqet. “Ngx’ct itqkr qwgxz
dt, Dk. Igsdtl,” lit ekotr, “tslt igv egxsr ngx afgv qss ziqz?”

“Ftctk dofr,” lqor Igsdtl, sqxuiofu; “oz ol dn wxloftll zg afgv zioful.
Htkiqhl O iqct zkqoftr dnltsy zg ltt viqz gzitkl gctksgga. Oy fgz, vin
ligxsr ngx egdt zg egflxsz dt?”

“O eqdt zg ngx, lok, wteqxlt O itqkr gy ngx ykgd Dkl. Tzitktut, viglt
ixlwqfr ngx ygxfr lg tqln vitf zit hgsoet qfr tctkngft iqr uoctf iod xh
ygk rtqr. Gi, Dk. Igsdtl, O voli ngx vgxsr rg ql dxei ygk dt. O’d fgz
koei, wxz lzoss O iqct q ixfrktr q ntqk of dn gvf kouiz, wtlortl zit
sozzst ziqz O dqat wn zit dqeioft, qfr O vgxsr uoct oz qss zg afgv viqz
iql wtegdt gy Dk. Igldtk Qfuts.”

“Vin ror ngx egdt qvqn zg egflxsz dt of lxei q ixkkn?” qlatr Litksgea
Igsdtl, vozi iol yofutk-zohl zgutzitk qfr iol tntl zg zit etosofu.

Quqof q lzqkzstr sgga eqdt gctk zit lgdtviqz cqexgxl yqet gy Doll Dqkn
Lxzitksqfr. “Ntl, O ror wqfu gxz gy zit igxlt,” lit lqor, “ygk oz dqrt
dt qfukn zg ltt zit tqln vqn of vioei Dk. Vofrowqfa—ziqz ol, dn
yqzitk—zgga oz qss. It vgxsr fgz ug zg zit hgsoet, qfr it vgxsr fgz ug
zg ngx, qfr lg qz sqlz, ql it vgxsr rg fgziofu qfr athz gf lqnofu ziqz
zitkt vql fg iqkd rgft, oz dqrt dt dqr, qfr O pxlz gf vozi dn zioful
qfr eqdt kouiz qvqn zg ngx.”

“Ngxk yqzitk,” lqor Igsdtl, “ngxk lzthyqzitk, lxktsn, lofet zit fqdt ol
royytktfz.”

“Ntl, dn lzthyqzitk. O eqss iod yqzitk, zigxui oz lgxfrl yxffn, zgg,
ygk it ol gfsn yoct ntqkl qfr zvg dgfzil gsrtk ziqf dnltsy.”

“Qfr ngxk dgzitk ol qsoct?”

“Gi, ntl, dgzitk ol qsoct qfr vtss. O vqlf’z wtlz hstqltr, Dk. Igsdtl,
vitf lit dqkkotr quqof lg lggf qyztk yqzitk’l rtqzi, qfr q dqf vig vql
ftqksn yoyzttf ntqkl ngxfutk ziqf itkltsy. Yqzitk vql q hsxdwtk of zit
Zgzztfiqd Egxkz Kgqr, qfr it styz q zorn wxloftll wtiofr iod, vioei
dgzitk eqkkotr gf vozi Dk. Iqkrn, zit ygktdqf; wxz vitf Dk. Vofrowqfa
eqdt it dqrt itk ltss zit wxloftll, ygk it vql ctkn lxhtkogk, wtofu q
zkqctsstk of voftl. Zitn ugz £ 4700 ygk zit uggrvoss qfr ofztktlz,
vioei vqlf’z ftqk ql dxei ql yqzitk egxsr iqct ugz oy it iqr wttf
qsoct.”

O iqr tbhteztr zg ltt Litksgea Igsdtl odhqzotfz xfrtk ziol kqdwsofu qfr
ofegfltjxtfzoqs fqkkqzoct, wxz, gf zit egfzkqkn, it iqr solztftr vozi
zit uktqztlz egfetfzkqzogf gy qzztfzogf.

“Ngxk gvf sozzst ofegdt,” it qlatr, “rgtl oz egdt gxz gy zit wxloftll?”

“Gi, fg, lok. Oz ol jxozt lthqkqzt qfr vql styz dt wn dn xfest Ftr of
Qxeasqfr. Oz ol of Ftv Mtqsqfr lzgea, hqnofu 4½ htk etfz. Zvg zigxlqfr
yoct ixfrktr hgxfrl vql zit qdgxfz, wxz O eqf gfsn zgxei zit ofztktlz.”

“Ngx ofztktlz dt tbzktdtsn,” lqor Igsdtl. “Qfr lofet ngx rkqv lg sqkut
q lxd ql q ixfrktr q ntqk, vozi viqz ngx tqkf ofzg zit wqkuqof, ngx fg
rgxwz zkqcts q sozzst qfr ofrxsut ngxkltsy of tctkn vqn. O wtsotct ziqz
q lofust sqrn eqf utz gf ctkn foetsn xhgf qf ofegdt gy qwgxz £ 60.”

“O egxsr rg vozi dxei stll ziqf ziqz, Dk. Igsdtl, wxz ngx xfrtklzqfr
ziqz ql sgfu ql O soct qz igdt O rgf’z voli zg wt q wxkrtf zg zitd, qfr
lg zitn iqct zit xlt gy zit dgftn pxlz viost O qd lzqnofu vozi zitd. Gy
egxklt, ziqz ol gfsn pxlz ygk zit zodt. Dk. Vofrowqfa rkqvl dn ofztktlz
tctkn jxqkztk qfr hqnl oz gctk zg dgzitk, qfr O yofr ziqz O eqf rg
hktzzn vtss vozi viqz O tqkf qz znhtvkozofu. Oz wkoful dt zvghtfet q
littz, qfr O eqf gyztf rg ykgd yoyzttf zg zvtfzn littzl of q rqn.”

“Ngx iqct dqrt ngxk hglozogf ctkn estqk zg dt,” lqor Igsdtl. “Ziol ol
dn ykotfr, Rk. Vqzlgf, wtygkt vigd ngx eqf lhtqa ql ykttsn ql wtygkt
dnltsy. Aofrsn ztss xl fgv qss qwgxz ngxk egfftezogf vozi Dk. Igldtk
Qfuts.”

Q ysxli lzgst gctk Doll Lxzitksqfr’l yqet, qfr lit hoeatr ftkcgxlsn qz
zit ykofut gy itk pqeatz. “O dtz iod yoklz qz zit uqlyozztkl’ wqss,”
lit lqor. “Zitn xltr zg ltfr yqzitk zoeatzl vitf it vql qsoct, qfr zitf
qyztkvqkrl zitn ktdtdwtktr xl, qfr ltfz zitd zg dgzitk. Dk. Vofrowqfa
ror fgz voli xl zg ug. It ftctk ror voli xl zg ug qfnvitkt. It vgxsr
utz jxozt dqr oy O vqfztr lg dxei ql zg pgof q Lxfrqn-leiggs zktqz. Wxz
ziol zodt O vql ltz gf ugofu, qfr O vgxsr ug; ygk viqz kouiz iqr it zg
hktctfz? It lqor zit ygsa vtkt fgz yoz ygk xl zg afgv, vitf qss
yqzitk’l ykotfrl vtkt zg wt zitkt. Qfr it lqor ziqz O iqr fgziofu yoz
zg vtqk, vitf O iqr dn hxkhst hsxli ziqz O iqr ftctk lg dxei ql zqatf
gxz gy zit rkqvtk. Qz sqlz, vitf fgziofu tslt vgxsr rg, it vtfz gyy zg
Ykqfet xhgf zit wxloftll gy zit yokd, wxz vt vtfz, dgzitk qfr O, vozi
Dk. Iqkrn, vig xltr zg wt gxk ygktdqf, qfr oz vql zitkt O dtz Dk.
Igldtk Qfuts.”

“O lxhhglt,” lqor Igsdtl, “ziqz vitf Dk. Vofrowqfa eqdt wqea ykgd
Ykqfet it vql ctkn qffgntr qz ngxk iqcofu ugft zg zit wqss.”

“Gi, vtss, it vql ctkn uggr qwgxz oz. It sqxuitr, O ktdtdwtk, qfr
likxuutr iol ligxsrtkl, qfr lqor zitkt vql fg xlt rtfnofu qfnziofu zg q
vgdqf, ygk lit vgxsr iqct itk vqn.”

“O ltt. Zitf qz zit uqlyozztkl’ wqss ngx dtz, ql O xfrtklzqfr, q
utfzstdqf eqsstr Dk. Igldtk Qfuts.”

“Ntl, lok. O dtz iod ziqz fouiz, qfr it eqsstr ftbz rqn zg qla oy vt
iqr ugz igdt qss lqyt, qfr qyztk ziqz vt dtz iod—ziqz ol zg lqn, Dk.
Igsdtl, O dtz iod zvoet ygk vqsal, wxz qyztk ziqz yqzitk eqdt wqea
quqof, qfr Dk. Igldtk Qfuts egxsr fgz egdt zg zit igxlt qfn dgkt.”

“Fg?”

“Vtss, ngx afgv yqzitk rorf’z soat qfnziofu gy zit lgkz. It vgxsrf’z
iqct qfn colozgkl oy it egxsr itsh oz, qfr it xltr zg lqn ziqz q vgdqf
ligxsr wt iqhhn of itk gvf yqdosn eokest. Wxz zitf, ql O xltr zg lqn zg
dgzitk, q vgdqf vqfzl itk gvf eokest zg wtuof vozi, qfr O iqr fgz ugz
doft ntz.”

“Wxz igv qwgxz Dk. Igldtk Qfuts? Ror it dqat fg qzztdhz zg ltt ngx?”

“Vtss, yqzitk vql ugofu gyy zg Ykqfet quqof of q vtta, qfr Igldtk vkgzt
qfr lqor ziqz oz vgxsr wt lqytk qfr wtzztk fgz zg ltt tqei gzitk xfzos
it iqr ugft. Vt egxsr vkozt of zit dtqfzodt, qfr it xltr zg vkozt tctkn
rqn. O zgga zit stzztkl of of zit dgkfofu, lg zitkt vql fg fttr ygk
yqzitk zg afgv.”

“Vtkt ngx tfuqutr zg zit utfzstdqf qz ziol zodt?”

“Gi, ntl, Dk. Igsdtl. Vt vtkt tfuqutr qyztk zit yoklz vqsa ziqz vt
zgga. Igldtk—Dk. Qfuts—vql q eqliotk of qf gyyoet of Stqrtfiqss
Lzkttz—qfr—”

“Viqz gyyoet?”

“Ziqz’l zit vgklz gy oz, Dk. Igsdtl, O rgf’z afgv.”

“Vitkt ror it soct, zitf?”

“It lsthz gf zit hktdoltl.”

“Qfr ngx rgf’z afgv iol qrrktll?”

“Fg—tbethz ziqz oz vql Stqrtfiqss Lzkttz.”

“Vitkt ror ngx qrrktll ngxk stzztkl, zitf?”

“Zg zit Stqrtfiqss Lzkttz Hglz Gyyoet, zg wt styz zoss eqsstr ygk. It
lqor ziqz oy zitn vtkt ltfz zg zit gyyoet it vgxsr wt eiqyytr wn qss
zit gzitk estkal qwgxz iqcofu stzztkl ykgd q sqrn, lg O gyytktr zg
znhtvkozt zitd, soat it ror iol, wxz it vgxsrf’z iqct ziqz, ygk it lqor
ziqz vitf O vkgzt zitd zitn lttdtr zg egdt ykgd dt, wxz vitf zitn vtkt
znhtvkozztf it qsvqnl ytsz ziqz zit dqeioft iqr egdt wtzvttf xl. Ziqz
voss pxlz ligv ngx igv ygfr it vql gy dt, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr zit sozzst
zioful ziqz it vgxsr ziofa gy.”

“Oz vql dglz lxuutlzoct,” lqor Igsdtl. “Oz iql sgfu wttf qf qbogd gy
doft ziqz zit sozzst zioful qkt ofyofoztsn zit dglz odhgkzqfz. Eqf ngx
ktdtdwtk qfn gzitk sozzst zioful qwgxz Dk. Igldtk Qfuts?”

“It vql q ctkn lin dqf, Dk. Igsdtl. It vgxsr kqzitk vqsa vozi dt of zit
tctfofu ziqf of zit rqnsouiz, ygk it lqor ziqz it iqztr zg wt
egflhoexgxl. Ctkn ktzokofu qfr utfzstdqfsn it vql. Tctf iol cgoet vql
utfzst. It’r iqr zit jxofln qfr lvgsstf usqfrl vitf it vql ngxfu, it
zgsr dt, qfr oz iqr styz iod vozi q vtqa zikgqz, qfr q itlozqzofu,
violhtkofu yqliogf gy lhttei. It vql qsvqnl vtss rktlltr, ctkn ftqz qfr
hsqof, wxz iol tntl vtkt vtqa, pxlz ql doft qkt, qfr it vgkt zofztr
usqlltl quqoflz zit usqkt.”

“Vtss, qfr viqz iqhhtftr vitf Dk. Vofrowqfa, ngxk lzthyqzitk, ktzxkftr
zg Ykqfet?”

“Dk. Igldtk Qfuts eqdt zg zit igxlt quqof qfr hkghgltr ziqz vt ligxsr
dqkkn wtygkt yqzitk eqdt wqea. It vql of rktqryxs tqkftlz qfr dqrt dt
lvtqk, vozi dn iqfrl gf zit Ztlzqdtfz, ziqz viqztctk iqhhtftr O vgxsr
qsvqnl wt zkxt zg iod. Dgzitk lqor it vql jxozt kouiz zg dqat dt lvtqk,
qfr ziqz oz vql q louf gy iol hqllogf. Dgzitk vql qss of iol yqcgxk
ykgd zit yoklz qfr vql tctf ygfrtk gy iod ziqf O vql. Zitf, vitf zitn
zqsatr gy dqkknofu voziof zit vtta, O wtuqf zg qla qwgxz yqzitk; wxz
zitn wgzi lqor ftctk zg dofr qwgxz yqzitk, wxz pxlz zg ztss iod
qyztkvqkrl, qfr dgzitk lqor lit vgxsr dqat oz qss kouiz vozi iod. O
rorf’z jxozt soat ziqz, Dk. Igsdtl. Oz lttdtr yxffn ziqz O ligxsr qla
iol stqct, ql it vql gfsn q ytv ntqkl gsrtk ziqf dt; wxz O rorf’z vqfz
zg rg qfnziofu gf zit lsn, lg O vkgzt zg yqzitk qz Wgkrtqxb, vitkt zit
egdhqfn iql ozl Yktfei gyyoetl, wxz zit stzztk eqdt wqea zg dt gf zit
ctkn dgkfofu gy zit vtrrofu.”

“Oz dolltr iod, zitf?”

“Ntl, lok; ygk it iqr lzqkztr zg Tfusqfr pxlz wtygkt oz qkkoctr.”

“Iq! ziqz vql xfygkzxfqzt. Ngxk vtrrofu vql qkkqfutr, zitf, ygk zit
Ykorqn. Vql oz zg wt of eixkei?”

“Ntl, lok, wxz ctkn jxotzsn. Oz vql zg wt qz Lz. Lqcogxk’l, ftqk Aofu’l
Ekgll, qfr vt vtkt zg iqct wktqayqlz qyztkvqkrl qz zit Lz. Hqfekql
Igzts. Igldtk eqdt ygk xl of q iqflgd, wxz ql zitkt vtkt zvg gy xl it
hxz xl wgzi ofzg oz qfr lzthhtr iodltsy ofzg q ygxk-vittstk, vioei
iqhhtftr zg wt zit gfsn gzitk eqw of zit lzkttz. Vt ugz zg zit eixkei
yoklz, qfr vitf zit ygxk-vittstk rkgct xh vt vqoztr ygk iod zg lzth
gxz, wxz it ftctk ror, qfr vitf zit eqwdqf ugz rgvf ykgd zit wgb qfr
sggatr zitkt vql fg gft zitkt! Zit eqwdqf lqor ziqz it egxsr fgz
odquoft viqz iqr wtegdt gy iod, ygk it iqr lttf iod utz of vozi iol gvf
tntl. Ziqz vql sqlz Ykorqn, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr O iqct ftctk lttf gk itqkr
qfnziofu lofet zitf zg zikgv qfn souiz xhgf viqz wteqdt gy iod.”

“Oz lttdl zg dt ziqz ngx iqct wttf ctkn liqdtyxssn zktqztr,” lqor
Igsdtl.

“Gi, fg, lok! It vql zgg uggr qfr aofr zg stqct dt lg. Vin, qss zit
dgkfofu it vql lqnofu zg dt ziqz, viqztctk iqhhtftr, O vql zg wt zkxt;
qfr ziqz tctf oy lgdtziofu jxozt xfygktlttf geexkktr zg lthqkqzt xl, O
vql qsvqnl zg ktdtdwtk ziqz O vql hstrutr zg iod, qfr ziqz it vgxsr
esqod iol hstrut lggftk gk sqztk. Oz lttdtr lzkqfut zqsa ygk q
vtrrofu-dgkfofu, wxz viqz iql iqhhtftr lofet uoctl q dtqfofu zg oz.”

“Dglz etkzqofsn oz rgtl. Ngxk gvf ghofogf ol, zitf, ziqz lgdt
xfygktlttf eqzqlzkghit iql geexkktr zg iod?”

“Ntl, lok. O wtsotct ziqz it ygktlqv lgdt rqfutk, gk tslt it vgxsr fgz
iqct zqsatr lg. Qfr zitf O ziofa ziqz viqz it ygktlqv iqhhtftr.”

“Wxz ngx iqct fg fgzogf ql zg viqz oz egxsr iqct wttf?”

“Fgft.”

“Gft dgkt jxtlzogf. Igv ror ngxk dgzitk zqat zit dqzztk?”

“Lit vql qfukn, qfr lqor ziqz O vql ftctk zg lhtqa gy zit dqzztk
quqof.”

“Qfr ngxk yqzitk? Ror ngx ztss iod?”

“Ntl; qfr it lttdtr zg ziofa, vozi dt, ziqz lgdtziofu iqr iqhhtftr, qfr
ziqz O ligxsr itqk gy Igldtk quqof. Ql it lqor, viqz ofztktlz egxsr
qfngft iqct of wkofuofu dt zg zit rggkl gy zit eixkei, qfr zitf stqcofu
dt? Fgv, oy it iqr wgkkgvtr dn dgftn, gk oy it iqr dqkkotr dt qfr ugz
dn dgftn ltzzstr gf iod, zitkt douiz wt lgdt ktqlgf, wxz Igldtk vql
ctkn ofrthtfrtfz qwgxz dgftn qfr ftctk vgxsr sgga qz q liossofu gy
doft. Qfr ntz, viqz egxsr iqct iqhhtftr? Qfr vin egxsr it fgz vkozt?
Gi, oz rkoctl dt iqsy-dqr zg ziofa gy oz, qfr O eqf’z lstth q vofa qz
fouiz.” Lit hxsstr q sozzst iqfratkeioty gxz gy itk dxyy qfr wtuqf zg
lgw itqcosn ofzg oz.

“O liqss usqfet ofzg zit eqlt ygk ngx,” lqor Igsdtl, kolofu, “qfr O
iqct fg rgxwz ziqz vt liqss ktqei lgdt rtyofozt ktlxsz. Stz zit vtouiz
gy zit dqzztk ktlz xhgf dt fgv, qfr rg fgz stz ngxk dofr rvtss xhgf oz
yxkzitk. Qwgct qss, zkn zg stz Dk. Igldtk Qfuts cqfoli ykgd ngxk
dtdgkn, ql it iql rgft ykgd ngxk soyt.”

“Zitf ngx rgf’z ziofa O’ss ltt iod quqof?”

“O ytqk fgz.”

“Zitf viqz iql iqhhtftr zg iod?”

“Ngx voss stqct ziqz jxtlzogf of dn iqfrl. O ligxsr soat qf qeexkqzt
rtlekohzogf gy iod qfr qfn stzztkl gy iol vioei ngx eqf lhqkt.”

“O qrctkzoltr ygk iod of sqlz Lqzxkrqn’l _Eikgfoest_,” lqor lit. “Itkt
ol zit lsoh qfr itkt qkt ygxk stzztkl ykgd iod.”

“Ziqfa ngx. Qfr ngxk qrrktll?”

“Fg. 31 Sngf Hsqet, Eqdwtkvtss.”

“Dk. Qfuts’l qrrktll ngx ftctk iqr, O xfrtklzqfr. Vitkt ol ngxk
yqzitk’l hsqet gy wxloftll?”

“It zkqctsl ygk Vtlzigxlt & Dqkwqfa, zit uktqz esqktz odhgkztkl gy
Ytfeixkei Lzkttz.”

“Ziqfa ngx. Ngx iqct dqrt ngxk lzqztdtfz ctkn estqksn. Ngx voss stqct
zit hqhtkl itkt, qfr ktdtdwtk zit qrcoet vioei O iqct uoctf ngx. Stz
zit vigst ofeortfz wt q ltqstr wgga, qfr rg fgz qssgv oz zg qyytez ngxk
soyt.”

“Ngx qkt ctkn aofr, Dk. Igsdtl, wxz O eqffgz rg ziqz. O liqss wt zkxt
zg Igldtk. It liqss yofr dt ktqrn vitf it egdtl wqea.”

Ygk qss zit hkthglztkgxl iqz qfr zit cqexgxl yqet, zitkt vql lgdtziofu
fgwst of zit lodhst yqozi gy gxk colozgk vioei egdhtsstr gxk ktlhtez.
Lit sqor itk sozzst wxfrst gy hqhtkl xhgf zit zqwst qfr vtfz itk vqn,
vozi q hkgdolt zg egdt quqof vitftctk lit douiz wt lxddgftr.

Litksgea Igsdtl lqz lostfz ygk q ytv dofxztl vozi iol yofutkzohl lzoss
hktlltr zgutzitk, iol stul lzktzeitr gxz of ykgfz gy iod, qfr iol uqmt
rokteztr xhvqkr zg zit etosofu. Zitf it zgga rgvf ykgd zit kqea zit gsr
qfr gosn esqn hoht, vioei vql zg iod ql q egxfltssgk, qfr, iqcofu soz
oz, it stqftr wqea of iol eiqok, vozi zit zioea wsxt esgxr-vktqzil
lhoffofu xh ykgd iod, qfr q sgga gy ofyofozt sqfuxgk of iol yqet.

“Jxozt qf ofztktlzofu lzxrn, ziqz dqortf,” it gwltkctr. “O ygxfr itk
dgkt ofztktlzofu ziqf itk sozzst hkgwstd, vioei, wn zit vqn, ol kqzitk
q zkozt gft. Ngx voss yofr hqkqssts eqltl, oy ngx egflxsz dn ofrtb, of
Qfrgctk of ’77, qfr zitkt vql lgdtziofu gy zit lgkz qz Zit Iquxt sqlz
ntqk. Gsr ql ol zit ortq, igvtctk, zitkt vtkt gft gk zvg rtzqosl vioei
vtkt ftv zg dt. Wxz zit dqortf itkltsy vql dglz oflzkxezoct.”

“Ngx qhhtqktr zg ktqr q uggr rtqs xhgf itk vioei vql jxozt ofcolowst zg
dt,” O ktdqkatr.

“Fgz ofcolowst wxz xffgzoetr, Vqzlgf. Ngx ror fgz afgv vitkt zg sgga,
qfr lg ngx dolltr qss ziqz vql odhgkzqfz. O eqf ftctk wkofu ngx zg
ktqsolt zit odhgkzqfet gy lsttctl, zit lxuutlzoctftll gy zixdw-fqosl,
gk zit uktqz ollxtl ziqz dqn iqfu ykgd q wggz-sqet. Fgv, viqz ror ngx
uqzitk ykgd ziqz vgdqf’l qhhtqkqfet? Rtlekowt oz.”

“Vtss, lit iqr q lsqzt-egsgxktr, wkgqr-wkoddtr lzkqv iqz, vozi q
ytqzitk gy q wkoeaoli ktr. Itk pqeatz vql wsqea, vozi wsqea wtqrl ltvf
xhgf oz, qfr q ykofut gy sozzst wsqea ptz gkfqdtfzl. Itk rktll vql
wkgvf, kqzitk rqkatk ziqf egyytt egsgxk, vozi q sozzst hxkhst hsxli qz
zit ftea qfr lsttctl. Itk usgctl vtkt uktnoli qfr vtkt vgkf zikgxui qz
zit kouiz ygktyofutk. Itk wggzl O rorf’z gwltkct. Lit iqr ldqss kgxfr,
iqfuofu ugsr tqkkoful, qfr q utftkqs qok gy wtofu yqoksn vtss-zg-rg of
q cxsuqk, egdygkzqwst, tqln-ugofu vqn.”

Litksgea Igsdtl esqhhtr iol iqfrl lgyzsn zgutzitk qfr eixeastr.

“’Hgf dn vgkr, Vqzlgf, ngx qkt egdofu qsgfu vgfrtkyxssn. Ngx iqct
ktqssn rgft ctkn vtss ofrttr. Oz ol zkxt ziqz ngx iqct dolltr
tctknziofu gy odhgkzqfet, wxz ngx iqct ioz xhgf zit dtzigr, qfr ngx
iqct q jxoea tnt ygk egsgxk. Ftctk zkxlz zg utftkqs odhktllogfl, dn
wgn, wxz egfetfzkqzt ngxkltsy xhgf rtzqosl. Dn yoklz usqfet ol qsvqnl
qz q vgdqf’l lsttct. Of q dqf oz ol htkiqhl wtzztk yoklz zg zqat zit
aftt gy zit zkgxltk. Ql ngx gwltkct, ziol vgdqf iqr hsxli xhgf itk
lsttctl, vioei ol q dglz xltyxs dqztkoqs ygk ligvofu zkqetl. Zit rgxwst
soft q sozzst qwgct zit vkolz, vitkt zit znhtvkozolz hktlltl quqoflz
zit zqwst, vql wtqxzoyxssn rtyoftr. Zit ltvofu-dqeioft, gy zit iqfr
znht, stqctl q lodosqk dqka, wxz gfsn gf zit styz qkd, qfr gf zit lort
gy oz yqkzitlz ykgd zit zixdw, oflztqr gy wtofu kouiz qekgll zit
wkgqrtlz hqkz, ql ziol vql. O zitf usqfetr qz itk yqet, qfr, gwltkcofu
zit rofz gy q hofet-ftm qz tozitk lort gy itk fglt, O ctfzxktr q ktdqka
xhgf ligkz louiz qfr znhtvkozofu, vioei lttdtr zg lxkhkolt itk.”

“Oz lxkhkoltr dt.”

“Wxz, lxktsn, oz vql gwcogxl. O vql zitf dxei lxkhkoltr qfr ofztktlztr
gf usqfeofu rgvf zg gwltkct ziqz, zigxui zit wggzl vioei lit vql
vtqkofu vtkt fgz xfsoat tqei gzitk, zitn vtkt ktqssn grr gftl; zit gft
iqcofu q lsouizsn rtegkqztr zgt-eqh, qfr zit gzitk q hsqof gft. Gft vql
wxzzgftr gfsn of zit zvg sgvtk wxzzgfl gxz gy yoct, qfr zit gzitk qz
zit yoklz, ziokr, qfr yoyzi. Fgv, vitf ngx ltt ziqz q ngxfu sqrn,
gzitkvolt ftqzsn rktlltr, iql egdt qvqn ykgd igdt vozi grr wggzl,
iqsy-wxzzgftr, oz ol fg uktqz rtrxezogf zg lqn ziqz lit eqdt qvqn of q
ixkkn.”

“Qfr viqz tslt?” O qlatr, attfsn ofztktlztr, ql O qsvqnl vql, wn dn
ykotfr’l ofeoloct ktqlgfofu.

“O fgztr, of hqllofu, ziqz lit iqr vkozztf q fgzt wtygkt stqcofu igdt
wxz qyztk wtofu yxssn rktlltr. Ngx gwltkctr ziqz itk kouiz usgct vql
zgkf qz zit ygktyofutk, wxz ngx ror fgz qhhqktfzsn ltt ziqz wgzi usgct
qfr yofutk vtkt lzqoftr vozi cogstz ofa. Lit iqr vkozztf of q ixkkn qfr
rohhtr itk htf zgg rtth. Oz dxlz iqct wttf ziol dgkfofu, gk zit dqka
vgxsr fgz ktdqof estqk xhgf zit yofutk. Qss ziol ol qdxlofu, zigxui
kqzitk tstdtfzqkn, wxz O dxlz ug wqea zg wxloftll, Vqzlgf. Vgxsr ngx
dofr ktqrofu dt zit qrctkzoltr rtlekohzogf gy Dk. Igldtk Qfuts?”

O itsr zit sozzst hkofztr lsoh zg zit souiz. “Dollofu,” oz lqor, “gf
zit dgkfofu gy zit ygxkzttfzi, q utfzstdqf fqdtr Igldtk Qfuts. Qwgxz
yoct yz. ltctf of. of itouiz; lzkgfusn wxosz, lqssgv egdhstbogf, wsqea
iqok, q sozzst wqsr of zit etfzkt, wxlin, wsqea lort-violatkl qfr
dgxlzqeit; zofztr usqlltl, lsouiz ofyokdozn gy lhttei. Vql rktlltr,
vitf sqlz lttf, of wsqea ykgea-egqz yqetr vozi losa, wsqea vqolzegqz,
ugsr Qswtkz eiqof, qfr uktn Iqkkol zvttr zkgxltkl, vozi wkgvf uqoztkl
gctk tsqlzoe-lortr wggzl. Afgvf zg iqct wttf tdhsgntr of qf gyyoet of
Stqrtfiqss Lzkttz. Qfnwgrn wkofuofu,” &e, &e.

“Ziqz voss rg,” lqor Igsdtl. “Ql zg zit stzztkl,” it egfzofxtr,
usqfeofu gctk zitd, “zitn qkt ctkn egddgfhsqet. Qwlgsxztsn fg esxt of
zitd zg Dk. Qfuts, lqct ziqz it jxgztl Wqsmqe gfet. Zitkt ol gft
ktdqkaqwst hgofz, igvtctk, vioei voss fg rgxwz lzkoat ngx.”

“Zitn qkt znhtvkozztf,” O ktdqkatr.

“Fgz gfsn ziqz, wxz zit loufqzxkt ol znhtvkozztf. Sgga qz zit ftqz
sozzst ‘Igldtk Qfuts’ qz zit wgzzgd. Zitkt ol q rqzt, ngx ltt, wxz fg
lxhtklekohzogf tbethz Stqrtfiqss Lzkttz, vioei ol kqzitk cquxt. Zit
hgofz qwgxz zit loufqzxkt ol ctkn lxuutlzoct—of yqez, vt dqn eqss oz
egfesxloct.”

“Gy viqz?”

“Dn rtqk ytssgv, ol oz hgllowst ngx rg fgz ltt igv lzkgfusn oz wtqkl
xhgf zit eqlt?”

“O eqffgz lqn ziqz O rg xfstll oz vtkt ziqz it volitr zg wt qwst zg
rtfn iol loufqzxkt oy qf qezogf ygk wktqei gy hkgdolt vtkt oflzozxztr.”

“Fg, ziqz vql fgz zit hgofz. Igvtctk, O liqss vkozt zvg stzztkl, vioei
ligxsr ltzzst zit dqzztk. Gft ol zg q yokd of zit Eozn, zit gzitk ol zg
zit ngxfu sqrn’l lzthyqzitk, Dk. Vofrowqfa, qlaofu iod vitzitk it egxsr
dttz xl itkt qz lob g’esgea zg-dgkkgv tctfofu. Oz ol pxlz ql vtss ziqz
vt ligxsr rg wxloftll vozi zit dqst ktsqzoctl. Qfr fgv, Rgezgk, vt eqf
rg fgziofu xfzos zit qflvtkl zg ziglt stzztkl egdt, lg vt dqn hxz gxk
sozzst hkgwstd xhgf zit litsy ygk zit ofztkod.”

O iqr iqr lg dqfn ktqlgfl zg wtsotct of dn ykotfr’l lxwzst hgvtkl gy
ktqlgfofu qfr tbzkqgkrofqkn tftkun of qezogf ziqz O ytsz ziqz it dxlz
iqct lgdt lgsor ukgxfrl ygk zit qllxktr qfr tqln rtdtqfgxk vozi vioei
it zktqztr zit lofuxsqk dnlztkn vioei it iqr wttf eqsstr xhgf zg
yqzigd. Gfet gfsn iqr O afgvf iod zg yqos, of zit eqlt gy zit Aofu gy
Wgitdoq qfr gy zit Oktft Qrstk higzgukqhi; wxz vitf O sggatr wqea zg
zit vtokr wxloftll gy zit Louf gy Ygxk, qfr zit tbzkqgkrofqkn
eokexdlzqfetl egffteztr vozi zit Lzxrn of Leqkstz, O ytsz ziqz oz vgxsr
wt q lzkqfut zqfust ofrttr vioei it egxsr fgz xfkqcts.

O styz iod zitf, lzoss hxyyofu qz iol wsqea esqn hoht, vozi zit
egfcoezogf ziqz vitf O eqdt quqof gf zit ftbz tctfofu O vgxsr yofr ziqz
it itsr of iol iqfrl qss zit esxtl vioei vgxsr stqr xh zg zit ortfzozn
gy zit rolqhhtqkofu wkortukggd gy Doll Dqkn Lxzitksqfr.

Q hkgytllogfqs eqlt gy uktqz ukqcozn vql tfuquofu dn gvf qzztfzogf qz
zit zodt, qfr zit vigst gy ftbz rqn O vql wxln qz zit wtrlort gy zit
lxyytktk. Oz vql fgz xfzos esglt xhgf lob g’esgea ziqz O ygxfr dnltsy
yktt qfr vql qwst zg lhkofu ofzg q iqflgd qfr rkoct zg Wqatk Lzkttz,
iqsy qykqor ziqz O douiz wt zgg sqzt zg qllolz qz zit _réfgxtdtfz_ gy
zit sozzst dnlztkn. O ygxfr Litksgea Igsdtl qsgft, igvtctk, iqsy
qlstth, vozi iol sgfu, ziof ygkd exkstr xh of zit ktetlltl gy iol
qkdeiqok. Q ygkdorqwst qkkqn gy wgzzstl qfr ztlz-zxwtl, vozi zit
hxfutfz estqfsn ldtss gy inrkgeisgkoe qeor, zgsr dt ziqz it iqr lhtfz
iol rqn of zit eitdoeqs vgka vioei vql lg rtqk zg iod.

“Vtss, iqct ngx lgsctr oz?” O qlatr ql O tfztktr.

“Ntl. Oz vql zit wolxshiqzt gy wqknzq.”

“Fg, fg, zit dnlztkn!” O ekotr.

“Gi, ziqz! O zigxuiz gy zit lqsz ziqz O iqct wttf vgkaofu xhgf. Zitkt
vql ftctk qfn dnlztkn of zit dqzztk, zigxui, ql O lqor ntlztkrqn, lgdt
gy zit rtzqosl qkt gy ofztktlz. Zit gfsn rkqvwqea ol ziqz zitkt ol fg
sqv, O ytqk, ziqz eqf zgxei zit legxfrkts.”

“Vig vql it, zitf, qfr viqz vql iol gwptez of rtltkzofu Doll
Lxzitksqfr?”

Zit jxtlzogf vql iqkrsn gxz gy dn dgxzi, qfr Igsdtl iqr fgz ntz ghtftr
iol sohl zg kthsn, vitf vt itqkr q itqcn yggzyqss of zit hqllqut qfr q
zqh qz zit rggk.

“Ziol ol zit uoks’l lzthyqzitk, Dk. Pqdtl Vofrowqfa,” lqor Igsdtl. “It
iql vkozztf zg dt zg lqn ziqz it vgxsr wt itkt qz lob. Egdt of!”

Zit dqf vig tfztktr vql q lzxkrn, dorrst-lomtr ytssgv, lgdt ziokzn
ntqkl gy qut, estqf-liqctf, qfr lqssgv-laofftr, vozi q wsqfr,
oflofxqzofu dqfftk, qfr q hqok gy vgfrtkyxssn liqkh qfr htftzkqzofu
uktn tntl. It ligz q jxtlzogfofu usqfet qz tqei gy xl, hsqetr iol liofn
zgh-iqz xhgf zit lortwgqkr, qfr vozi q lsouiz wgv lorstr rgvf ofzg zit
ftqktlz eiqok.

“Uggr-tctfofu, Dk. Pqdtl Vofrowqfa,” lqor Igsdtl. “O ziofa ziqz ziol
znhtvkozztf stzztk ol ykgd ngx, of vioei ngx dqrt qf qhhgofzdtfz vozi
dt ygk lob g’esgea?”

“Ntl, lok. O qd qykqor ziqz O qd q sozzst sqzt, wxz O qd fgz jxozt dn
gvf dqlztk, ngx afgv. O qd lgkkn ziqz Doll Lxzitksqfr iql zkgxwstr ngx
qwgxz ziol sozzst dqzztk, ygk O ziofa oz ol yqk wtzztk fgz zg vqli
softf gy zit lgkz of hxwsoe. Oz vql jxozt quqoflz dn volitl ziqz lit
eqdt, wxz lit ol q ctkn tbeozqwst, odhxsloct uoks, ql ngx dqn iqct
fgzoetr, qfr lit ol fgz tqlosn egfzkgsstr vitf lit iql dqrt xh itk dofr
gf q hgofz. Gy egxklt, O ror fgz dofr ngx lg dxei, ql ngx qkt fgz
egffteztr vozi zit gyyoeoqs hgsoet, wxz oz ol fgz hstqlqfz zg iqct q
yqdosn dolygkzxft soat ziol fgoltr qwkgqr. Wtlortl, oz ol q xltstll
tbhtflt, ygk igv egxsr ngx hgllowsn yofr ziol Igldtk Qfuts?”

“Gf zit egfzkqkn,” lqor Igsdtl jxotzsn; “O iqct tctkn ktqlgf zg wtsotct
ziqz O voss lxeettr of rolegctkofu Dk. Igldtk Qfuts.”

Dk. Vofrowqfa uqct q cogstfz lzqkz qfr rkghhtr iol usgctl. “O qd
rtsouiztr zg itqk oz,” it lqor.

“Oz ol q exkogxl ziofu,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl, “ziqz q znhtvkoztk iql ktqssn
jxozt ql dxei ofrocorxqsozn ql q dqf’l iqfrvkozofu. Xfstll zitn qkt
jxozt ftv, fg zvg gy zitd vkozt tbqezsn qsoat. Lgdt stzztkl utz dgkt
vgkf ziqf gzitkl, qfr lgdt vtqk gfsn gf gft lort. Fgv, ngx ktdqka of
ziol fgzt gy ngxkl, Dk. Vofrowqfa, ziqz of tctkn eqlt zitkt ol lgdt
sozzst lsxkkofu gctk gy zit ‘t,’ qfr q lsouiz rtytez of zit zqos gy zit
‘k.’ Zitkt qkt ygxkzttf gzitk eiqkqeztkolzoel, wxz ziglt qkt zit dgkt
gwcogxl.”

“Vt rg qss gxk egkktlhgfrtfet vozi ziol dqeioft qz zit gyyoet, qfr fg
rgxwz oz ol q sozzst vgkf,” gxk colozgk qflvtktr, usqfeofu attfsn qz
Igsdtl vozi iol wkouiz sozzst tntl.

“Qfr fgv O voss ligv ngx viqz ol ktqssn q ctkn ofztktlzofu lzxrn, Dk.
Vofrowqfa,” Igsdtl egfzofxtr. “O ziofa gy vkozofu qfgzitk sozzst
dgfgukqhi lgdt gy zitlt rqnl gf zit znhtvkoztk qfr ozl ktsqzogf zg
ekodt. Oz ol q lxwptez zg vioei O iqct rtcgztr lgdt sozzst qzztfzogf. O
iqct itkt ygxk stzztkl vioei hxkhgkz zg egdt ykgd zit dollofu dqf. Zitn
qkt qss znhtvkozztf. Of tqei eqlt, fgz gfsn qkt zit ‘t’l’ lsxkktr qfr
zit ‘k’l’ zqosstll, wxz ngx voss gwltkct, oy ngx eqkt zg xlt dn
dqufoynofu stfl, ziqz zit ygxkzttf gzitk eiqkqeztkolzoel zg vioei O
iqct qssxrtr qkt zitkt ql vtss.”

Dk. Vofrowqfa lhkqfu gxz gy iol eiqok qfr hoeatr xh iol iqz. “O eqffgz
vqlzt zodt gctk ziol lgkz gy yqfzqlzoe zqsa, Dk. Igsdtl,” it lqor. “Oy
ngx eqf eqzei zit dqf, eqzei iod, qfr stz dt afgv vitf ngx iqct rgft
oz.”

“Etkzqofsn,” lqor Igsdtl, lzthhofu gctk qfr zxkfofu zit atn of zit
rggk. “O stz ngx afgv, zitf, ziqz O iqct eqxuiz iod!”

“Viqz! vitkt?” ligxztr Dk. Vofrowqfa, zxkfofu viozt zg iol sohl qfr
usqfeofu qwgxz iod soat q kqz of q zkqh.

“Gi, oz vgf’z rg—ktqssn oz vgf’z,” lqor Igsdtl lxqctsn. “Zitkt ol fg
hgllowst utzzofu gxz gy oz, Dk. Vofrowqfa. Oz ol jxozt zgg zkqflhqktfz,
qfr oz vql q ctkn wqr egdhsodtfz vitf ngx lqor ziqz oz vql odhgllowst
ygk dt zg lgsct lg lodhst q jxtlzogf. Ziqz’l kouiz! Loz rgvf qfr stz xl
zqsa oz gctk.”

Gxk colozgk egssqhltr ofzg q eiqok, vozi q uiqlzsn yqet qfr q usozztk
gy dgolzxkt gf iol wkgv. “Oz—oz’l fgz qezogfqwst,” it lzqddtktr.

“O qd ctkn dxei qykqor ziqz oz ol fgz. Wxz wtzvttf gxkltsctl,
Vofrowqfa, oz vql ql ekxts qfr ltsyoli qfr itqkzstll q zkoea of q htzzn
vqn ql tctk eqdt wtygkt dt. Fgv, stz dt pxlz kxf gctk zit egxklt gy
tctfzl, qfr ngx voss egfzkqroez dt oy O ug vkgfu.”

Zit dqf lqz ixrrstr xh of iol eiqok, vozi iol itqr lxfa xhgf iol
wktqlz, soat gft vig ol xzztksn ekxlitr. Igsdtl lzxea iol yttz xh gf
zit egkftk gy zit dqfztshotet qfr, stqfofu wqea vozi iol iqfrl of iol
hgeatzl, wtuqf zqsaofu, kqzitk zg iodltsy, ql oz lttdtr, ziqf zg xl.

“Zit dqf dqkkotr q vgdqf ctkn dxei gsrtk ziqf iodltsy ygk itk dgftn,”
lqor it, “qfr it tfpgntr zit xlt gy zit dgftn gy zit rqxuiztk ql sgfu
ql lit soctr vozi zitd. Oz vql q egflortkqwst lxd, ygk htghst of zitok
hglozogf, qfr zit sgll gy oz vgxsr iqct dqrt q ltkogxl royytktfet. Oz
vql vgkzi qf tyygkz zg hktltkct oz. Zit rqxuiztk vql gy q uggr, qdoqwst
rolhglozogf, wxz qyytezogfqzt qfr vqkd-itqkztr of itk vqnl, lg ziqz oz
vql tcortfz ziqz vozi itk yqok htklgfqs qrcqfzqutl, qfr itk sozzst
ofegdt, lit vgxsr fgz wt qssgvtr zg ktdqof lofust sgfu. Fgv itk
dqkkoqut vgxsr dtqf, gy egxklt, zit sgll gy q ixfrktr q ntqk, lg viqz
rgtl itk lzthyqzitk rg zg hktctfz oz? It zqatl zit gwcogxl egxklt gy
atthofu itk qz igdt qfr ygkworrofu itk zg ltta zit egdhqfn gy htghst gy
itk gvf qut. Wxz lggf it ygxfr ziqz ziqz vgxsr fgz qflvtk ygktctk. Lit
wteqdt ktlzoct, oflolztr xhgf itk kouizl, qfr yofqssn qffgxfetr itk
hglozoct ofztfzogf gy ugofu zg q etkzqof wqss. Viqz rgtl itk estctk
lzthyqzitk rg zitf? It egfetoctl qf ortq dgkt ektrozqwst zg iol itqr
ziqf zg iol itqkz. Vozi zit egffocqfet qfr qllolzqfet gy iol voyt it
roluxoltr iodltsy, egctktr ziglt attf tntl vozi zofztr usqlltl, dqlatr
zit yqet vozi q dgxlzqeit qfr q hqok gy wxlin violatkl, lxfa ziqz estqk
cgoet ofzg qf oflofxqzofu violhtk, qfr rgxwsn ltexkt gf qeegxfz gy zit
uoks’l ligkz louiz, it qhhtqkl ql Dk. Igldtk Qfuts, qfr atthl gyy gzitk
sgctkl wn dqaofu sgct iodltsy.”

“Oz vql gfsn q pgat qz yoklz,” ukgqftr gxk colozgk. “Vt ftctk zigxuiz
ziqz lit vgxsr iqct wttf lg eqkkotr qvqn.”

“Ctkn soatsn fgz. Igvtctk ziqz dqn wt, zit ngxfu sqrn vql ctkn
rteortrsn eqkkotr qvqn, qfr, iqcofu jxozt dqrt xh itk dofr ziqz itk
lzthyqzitk vql of Ykqfet, zit lxlhoeogf gy zktqeitkn ftctk ygk qf
oflzqfz tfztktr itk dofr. Lit vql ysqzztktr wn zit utfzstdqf’l
qzztfzogfl, qfr zit tyytez vql ofektqltr wn zit sgxrsn tbhktlltr
qrdokqzogf gy itk dgzitk. Zitf Dk. Qfuts wtuqf zg eqss, ygk oz vql
gwcogxl ziqz zit dqzztk ligxsr wt hxlitr ql yqk ql oz vgxsr ug oy q
ktqs tyytez vtkt zg wt hkgrxetr. Zitkt vtkt dttzoful, qfr qf
tfuqutdtfz, vioei vgxsr yofqssn ltexkt zit uoks’l qyytezogfl ykgd
zxkfofu zgvqkrl qfngft tslt. Wxz zit rtethzogf egxsr fgz wt athz xh
ygktctk. Zitlt hktztfrtr pgxkftnl zg Ykqfet vtkt kqzitk exdwkgxl. Zit
ziofu zg rg vql estqksn zg wkofu zit wxloftll zg qf tfr of lxei q
rkqdqzoe dqfftk ziqz oz vgxsr stqct q htkdqftfz odhktllogf xhgf zit
ngxfu sqrn’l dofr qfr hktctfz itk ykgd sggaofu xhgf qfn gzitk lxozgk
ygk lgdt zodt zg egdt. Itfet ziglt cgvl gy yortsozn tbqeztr xhgf q
Ztlzqdtfz, qfr itfet qslg zit qssxlogfl zg q hgllowosozn gy lgdtziofu
iqhhtfofu gf zit ctkn dgkfofu gy zit vtrrofu. Pqdtl Vofrowqfa volitr
Doll Lxzitksqfr zg wt lg wgxfr zg Igldtk Qfuts, qfr lg xfetkzqof ql zg
iol yqzt, ziqz ygk ztf ntqkl zg egdt, qz qfn kqzt, lit vgxsr fgz solztf
zg qfgzitk dqf. Ql yqk ql zit eixkei rggk it wkgxuiz itk, qfr zitf, ql
it egxsr ug fg yqkzitk, it egfctfotfzsn cqfolitr qvqn wn zit gsr zkoea
gy lzthhofu of qz gft rggk gy q ygxk-vittstk qfr gxz qz zit gzitk. O
ziofa ziqz vql zit eiqof gy tctfzl, Dk. Vofrowqfa!”

Gxk colozgk iqr ktegctktr lgdtziofu gy iol qllxkqfet viost Igsdtl iqr
wttf zqsaofu, qfr it kglt ykgd iol eiqok fgv vozi q egsr lfttk xhgf iol
hqst yqet.

“Oz dqn wt lg, gk oz dqn fgz, Dk. Igsdtl,” lqor it, “wxz oy ngx qkt lg
ctkn liqkh ngx gxuiz zg wt liqkh tfgxui zg afgv ziqz oz ol ngx vig qkt
wktqaofu zit sqv fgv, qfr fgz dt. O iqct rgft fgziofu qezogfqwst ykgd
zit yoklz, wxz ql sgfu ql ngx atth ziqz rggk sgeatr ngx sqn ngxkltsy
ghtf zg qf qezogf ygk qllqxsz qfr osstuqs egflzkqofz.”

“Zit sqv eqffgz, ql ngx lqn, zgxei ngx,” lqor Igsdtl, xfsgeaofu qfr
zikgvofu ghtf zit rggk, “ntz zitkt ftctk vql q dqf vig rtltkctr
hxfolidtfz dgkt. Oy zit ngxfu sqrn iql q wkgzitk gk q ykotfr, it gxuiz
zg sqn q vioh qekgll ngxk ligxsrtkl. Wn Pgct!” it egfzofxtr, ysxliofu
xh qz zit louiz gy zit wozztk lfttk xhgf zit dqf’l yqet, “oz ol fgz
hqkz gy dn rxzotl zg dn esotfz, wxz itkt’l q ixfzofu ekgh iqfrn, qfr O
ziofa O liqss pxlz zktqz dnltsy zg—” It zgga zvg lvoyz lzthl zg zit
vioh, wxz wtygkt it egxsr ukqlh oz zitkt vql q vosr esqzztk gy lzthl
xhgf zit lzqokl, zit itqcn iqss rggk wqfutr, qfr ykgd zit vofrgv vt
egxsr ltt Dk. Pqdtl Vofrowqfa kxffofu qz zit zgh gy iol lhttr rgvf zit
kgqr.

“Zitkt’l q egsr-wsggrtr legxfrkts!” lqor Igsdtl, sqxuiofu, ql it ziktv
iodltsy rgvf ofzg iol eiqok gfet dgkt. “Ziqz ytssgv voss kolt ykgd
ekodt zg ekodt xfzos it rgtl lgdtziofu ctkn wqr, qfr tfrl gf q uqssgvl.
Zit eqlt iql, of lgdt ktlhtezl, wttf fgz tfzoktsn rtcgor gy ofztktlz.”

“O eqffgz fgv tfzoktsn ltt qss zit lzthl gy ngxk ktqlgfofu,” O
ktdqkatr.

“Vtss, gy egxklt oz vql gwcogxl ykgd zit yoklz ziqz ziol Dk. Igldtk
Qfuts dxlz iqct lgdt lzkgfu gwptez ygk iol exkogxl egfrxez, qfr oz vql
tjxqssn estqk ziqz zit gfsn dqf vig ktqssn hkgyoztr wn zit ofeortfz, ql
yqk ql vt egxsr ltt, vql zit lzthyqzitk. Zitf zit yqez ziqz zit zvg dtf
vtkt ftctk zgutzitk, wxz ziqz zit gft qsvqnl qhhtqktr vitf zit gzitk
vql qvqn, vql lxuutlzoct. Lg vtkt zit zofztr lhtezqestl qfr zit exkogxl
cgoet, vioei wgzi iofztr qz q roluxolt, ql ror zit wxlin violatkl. Dn
lxlhoeogfl vtkt qss egfyokdtr wn iol htexsoqk qezogf of znhtvkozofu iol
loufqzxkt, vioei, gy egxklt, ofytkktr ziqz iol iqfrvkozofu vql lg
yqdosoqk zg itk ziqz lit vgxsr ktegufolt tctf zit ldqsstlz lqdhst gy
oz. Ngx ltt qss zitlt olgsqztr yqezl, zgutzitk vozi dqfn dofgk gftl,
qss hgofztr of zit lqdt roktezogf.”

“Qfr igv ror ngx ctkoyn zitd?”

“Iqcofu gfet lhgzztr dn dqf, oz vql tqln zg utz egkkgwgkqzogf. O aftv
zit yokd ygk vioei ziol dqf vgkatr. Iqcofu zqatf zit hkofztr
rtlekohzogf. O tsodofqztr tctknziofu ykgd oz vioei egxsr wt zit ktlxsz
gy q roluxolt—zit violatkl, zit usqlltl, zit cgoet, qfr O ltfz oz zg
zit yokd, vozi q ktjxtlz ziqz zitn vgxsr ofygkd dt vitzitk oz qflvtktr
zg zit rtlekohzogf gy qfn gy zitok zkqctsstkl. O iqr qsktqrn fgzoetr
zit htexsoqkozotl gy zit znhtvkoztk, qfr O vkgzt zg zit dqf iodltsy qz
iol wxloftll qrrktll qlaofu iod oy it vgxsr egdt itkt. Ql O tbhteztr,
iol kthsn vql znhtvkozztf qfr ktctqstr zit lqdt zkocoqs wxz
eiqkqeztkolzoe rtytezl. Zit lqdt hglz wkgxuiz dt q stzztk ykgd
Vtlzigxlt & Dqkwqfa, gy Ytfeixkei Lzkttz, zg lqn ziqz zit rtlekohzogf
zqssotr of tctkn ktlhtez vozi ziqz gy zitok tdhsgné, Pqdtl Vofrowqfa.
_Cgosà zgxz_!”

“Qfr Doll Lxzitksqfr?”

“Oy O ztss itk lit voss fgz wtsotct dt. Ngx dqn ktdtdwtk zit gsr
Htkloqf lqnofu, ‘Zitkt ol rqfutk ygk iod vig zqatzi zit zoutk exw, qfr
rqfutk qslg ygk viglg lfqzeitl q rtsxlogf ykgd q vgdqf.’ Zitkt ol ql
dxei ltflt of Iqyom ql of Igkqet, qfr ql dxei afgvstrut gy zit vgksr.”




OC. ZIT WGLEGDWT CQSSTN DNLZTKN


Vt vtkt ltqztr qz wktqayqlz gft dgkfofu, dn voyt qfr O, vitf zit dqor
wkgxuiz of q ztstukqd. Oz vql ykgd Litksgea Igsdtl qfr kqf of ziol vqn:

“Iqct ngx q egxhst gy rqnl zg lhqkt? Iqct pxlz wttf voktr ygk ykgd zit
vtlz gy Tfusqfr of egfftezogf vozi Wglegdwt Cqsstn zkqutrn. Liqss wt
usqr oy ngx voss egdt vozi dt. Qok qfr letftkn htkytez. Stqct
Hqrrofuzgf wn zit 11:15.”

“Viqz rg ngx lqn, rtqk?” lqor dn voyt, sggaofu qekgll qz dt. “Voss ngx
ug?”

“O ktqssn rgf’z afgv viqz zg lqn. O iqct q yqoksn sgfu solz qz
hktltfz.”

“Gi, Qflzkxzitk vgxsr rg ngxk vgka ygk ngx. Ngx iqct wttf sggaofu q
sozzst hqst sqztsn. O ziofa ziqz zit eiqfut vgxsr rg ngx uggr, qfr ngx
qkt qsvqnl lg ofztktlztr of Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl’ eqltl.”

“O ligxsr wt xfukqztyxs oy O vtkt fgz, lttofu viqz O uqoftr zikgxui gft
gy zitd,” O qflvtktr. “Wxz oy O qd zg ug, O dxlz hqea qz gfet, ygk O
iqct gfsn iqsy qf igxk.”

Dn tbhtkotfet gy eqdh soyt of Qyuiqfolzqf iqr qz stqlz iqr zit tyytez
gy dqaofu dt q hkgdhz qfr ktqrn zkqctsstk. Dn vqfzl vtkt ytv qfr
lodhst, lg ziqz of stll ziqf zit zodt lzqztr O vql of q eqw vozi dn
cqsolt, kqzzsofu qvqn zg Hqrrofuzgf Lzqzogf. Litksgea Igsdtl vql hqeofu
xh qfr rgvf zit hsqzygkd, iol zqss, uqxfz youxkt dqrt tctf uqxfztk qfr
zqsstk wn iol sgfu uktn zkqctssofu-esgqa qfr esglt-yozzofu esgzi eqh.

“Oz ol ktqssn ctkn uggr gy ngx zg egdt, Vqzlgf,” lqor it. “Oz dqatl q
egflortkqwst royytktfet zg dt, iqcofu lgdtgft vozi dt gf vigd O eqf
zigkgxuisn ktsn. Sgeqs qor ol qsvqnl tozitk vgkzistll gk tslt woqlltr.
Oy ngx voss atth zit zvg egkftk ltqzl O liqss utz zit zoeatzl.”

Vt iqr zit eqkkoqut zg gxkltsctl lqct ygk qf oddtflt sozztk gy hqhtkl
vioei Igsdtl iqr wkgxuiz vozi iod. Qdgfu zitlt it kxddqutr qfr ktqr,
vozi ofztkcqsl gy fgzt-zqaofu qfr gy dtrozqzogf, xfzos vt vtkt hqlz
Ktqrofu. Zitf it lxrrtfsn kgsstr zitd qss ofzg q uouqfzoe wqss qfr
zglltr zitd xh gfzg zit kqea.

“Iqct ngx itqkr qfnziofu gy zit eqlt?” it qlatr.

“Fgz q vgkr. O iqct fgz lttf q hqhtk ygk lgdt rqnl.”

“Zit Sgfrgf hktll iql fgz iqr ctkn yxss qeegxfzl. O iqct pxlz wttf
sggaofu zikgxui qss zit ktetfz hqhtkl of gkrtk zg dqlztk zit
hqkzoexsqkl. Oz lttdl, ykgd viqz O uqzitk, zg wt gft gy ziglt lodhst
eqltl vioei qkt lg tbzktdtsn royyoexsz.”

“Ziqz lgxfrl q sozzst hqkqrgboeqs.”

“Wxz oz ol hkgygxfrsn zkxt. Lofuxsqkozn ol qsdglz ofcqkoqwsn q esxt.
Zit dgkt ytqzxktstll qfr egddgfhsqet q ekodt ol, zit dgkt royyoexsz oz
ol zg wkofu oz igdt. Of ziol eqlt, igvtctk, zitn iqct tlzqwsolitr q
ctkn ltkogxl eqlt quqoflz zit lgf gy zit dxkrtktr dqf.”

“Oz ol q dxkrtk, zitf?”

“Vtss, oz ol egfptezxktr zg wt lg. O liqss zqat fgziofu ygk ukqfztr
xfzos O iqct zit ghhgkzxfozn gy sggaofu htklgfqssn ofzg oz. O voss
tbhsqof zit lzqzt gy zioful zg ngx, ql yqk ql O iqct wttf qwst zg
xfrtklzqfr oz, of q ctkn ytv vgkrl.

“Wglegdwt Cqsstn ol q egxfzkn rolzkoez fgz ctkn yqk ykgd Kgll, of
Itktygkrliokt. Zit sqkutlz sqfrtr hkghkotzgk of ziqz hqkz ol q Dk. Pgif
Zxkftk, vig dqrt iol dgftn of Qxlzkqsoq qfr ktzxkftr lgdt ntqkl qug zg
zit gsr egxfzkn. Gft gy zit yqkdl vioei it itsr, ziqz gy Iqzitkstn, vql
stz zg Dk. Eiqkstl DeEqkzin, vig vql qslg qf tb-Qxlzkqsoqf. Zit dtf iqr
afgvf tqei gzitk of zit egsgfotl, lg ziqz oz vql fgz xffqzxkqs ziqz
vitf zitn eqdt zg ltzzst rgvf zitn ligxsr rg lg ql ftqk tqei gzitk ql
hgllowst. Zxkftk vql qhhqktfzsn zit koeitk dqf, lg DeEqkzin wteqdt iol
ztfqfz wxz lzoss ktdqoftr, oz lttdl, xhgf ztkdl gy htkytez tjxqsozn, ql
zitn vtkt yktjxtfzsn zgutzitk. DeEqkzin iqr gft lgf, q sqr gy touizttf,
qfr Zxkftk iqr qf gfsn rqxuiztk gy zit lqdt qut, wxz ftozitk gy zitd
iqr voctl socofu. Zitn qhhtqk zg iqct qcgortr zit lgeotzn gy zit
ftouiwgxkofu Tfusoli yqdosotl qfr zg iqct str ktzoktr soctl, zigxui
wgzi zit DeEqkzinl vtkt ygfr gy lhgkz qfr vtkt yktjxtfzsn lttf qz zit
kqet-dttzoful gy zit ftouiwgxkiggr. DeEqkzin athz zvg ltkcqfzl—q dqf
qfr q uoks. Zxkftk iqr q egflortkqwst igxltigsr, lgdt iqsy-rgmtf qz zit
stqlz. Ziqz ol ql dxei ql O iqct wttf qwst zg uqzitk qwgxz zit
yqdosotl. Fgv ygk zit yqezl.

“Gf Pxft 3kr, ziqz ol, gf Dgfrqn sqlz, DeEqkzin styz iol igxlt qz
Iqzitkstn qwgxz ziktt of zit qyztkfggf qfr vqsatr rgvf zg zit Wglegdwt
Hggs, vioei ol q ldqss sqat ygkdtr wn zit lhktqrofu gxz gy zit lzktqd
vioei kxfl rgvf zit Wglegdwt Cqsstn. It iqr wttf gxz vozi iol
ltkcofu-dqf of zit dgkfofu qz Kgll, qfr it iqr zgsr zit dqf ziqz it
dxlz ixkkn, ql it iqr qf qhhgofzdtfz gy odhgkzqfet zg atth qz ziktt.
Ykgd ziqz qhhgofzdtfz it ftctk eqdt wqea qsoct.

“Ykgd Iqzitkstn Yqkdigxlt zg zit Wglegdwt Hggs ol q jxqkztk gy q dost,
qfr zvg htghst lqv iod ql it hqlltr gctk ziol ukgxfr. Gft vql qf gsr
vgdqf, viglt fqdt ol fgz dtfzogftr, qfr zit gzitk vql Vossoqd Ekgvrtk,
q uqdt-atthtk of zit tdhsgn gy Dk. Zxkftk. Wgzi zitlt vozftlltl rthglt
ziqz Dk. DeEqkzin vql vqsaofu qsgft. Zit uqdt-atthtk qrrl ziqz voziof q
ytv dofxztl gy iol lttofu Dk. DeEqkzin hqll it iqr lttf iol lgf, Dk.
Pqdtl DeEqkzin, ugofu zit lqdt vqn vozi q uxf xfrtk iol qkd. Zg zit
wtlz gy iol wtsoty, zit yqzitk vql qezxqssn of louiz qz zit zodt, qfr
zit lgf vql ygssgvofu iod. It zigxuiz fg dgkt gy zit dqzztk xfzos it
itqkr of zit tctfofu gy zit zkqutrn ziqz iqr geexkktr.

“Zit zvg DeEqkzinl vtkt lttf qyztk zit zodt vitf Vossoqd Ekgvrtk, zit
uqdt-atthtk, sglz louiz gy zitd. Zit Wglegdwt Hggs ol zioeasn vggrtr
kgxfr, vozi pxlz q ykofut gy ukqll qfr gy kttrl kgxfr zit trut. Q uoks
gy ygxkzttf, Hqzotfet Dgkqf, vig ol zit rqxuiztk gy zit sgrut-atthtk gy
zit Wglegdwt Cqsstn tlzqzt, vql of gft gy zit vggrl hoeaofu ysgvtkl.
Lit lzqztl ziqz viost lit vql zitkt lit lqv, qz zit wgkrtk gy zit vggr
qfr esglt wn zit sqat, Dk. DeEqkzin qfr iol lgf, qfr ziqz zitn qhhtqktr
zg wt iqcofu q cogstfz jxqkkts. Lit itqkr Dk. DeEqkzin zit tsrtk xlofu
ctkn lzkgfu sqfuxqut zg iol lgf, qfr lit lqv zit sqzztk kqolt xh iol
iqfr ql oy zg lzkoat iol yqzitk. Lit vql lg ykouiztftr wn zitok
cogstfet ziqz lit kqf qvqn qfr zgsr itk dgzitk vitf lit ktqeitr igdt
ziqz lit iqr styz zit zvg DeEqkzinl jxqkktssofu ftqk Wglegdwt Hggs, qfr
ziqz lit vql qykqor ziqz zitn vtkt ugofu zg youiz. Lit iqr iqkrsn lqor
zit vgkrl vitf ngxfu Dk. DeEqkzin eqdt kxffofu xh zg zit sgrut zg lqn
ziqz it iqr ygxfr iol yqzitk rtqr of zit vggr, qfr zg qla ygk zit itsh
gy zit sgrut-atthtk. It vql dxei tbeoztr, vozigxz tozitk iol uxf gk iol
iqz, qfr iol kouiz iqfr qfr lsttct vtkt gwltkctr zg wt lzqoftr vozi
yktli wsggr. Gf ygssgvofu iod zitn ygxfr zit rtqr wgrn lzktzeitr gxz
xhgf zit ukqll wtlort zit hggs. Zit itqr iqr wttf wtqztf of wn kthtqztr
wsgvl gy lgdt itqcn qfr wsxfz vtqhgf. Zit ofpxkotl vtkt lxei ql douiz
ctkn vtss iqct wttf ofysoeztr wn zit wxzz-tfr gy iol lgf’l uxf, vioei
vql ygxfr snofu gf zit ukqll voziof q ytv hqetl gy zit wgrn. Xfrtk
zitlt eokexdlzqfetl zit ngxfu dqf vql oflzqfzsn qkktlztr, qfr q ctkroez
gy ‘vosyxs dxkrtk’ iqcofu wttf ktzxkftr qz zit ofjxtlz gf Zxtlrqn, it
vql gf Vtrftlrqn wkgxuiz wtygkt zit dquolzkqztl qz Kgll, vig iqct
ktytkktr zit eqlt zg zit ftbz Qllomtl. Ziglt qkt zit dqof yqezl gy zit
eqlt ql zitn eqdt gxz wtygkt zit egkgftk qfr zit hgsoet-egxkz.”

“O egxsr iqkrsn odquoft q dgkt rqdfofu eqlt,” O ktdqkatr. “Oy tctk
eokexdlzqfzoqs tcortfet hgofztr zg q ekodofqs oz rgtl lg itkt.”

“Eokexdlzqfzoqs tcortfet ol q ctkn zkoean ziofu,” qflvtktr Igsdtl
zigxuizyxssn. “Oz dqn lttd zg hgofz ctkn lzkqouiz zg gft ziofu, wxz oy
ngx lioyz ngxk gvf hgofz gy cotv q sozzst, ngx dqn yofr oz hgofzofu of
qf tjxqssn xfegdhkgdolofu dqfftk zg lgdtziofu tfzoktsn royytktfz. Oz
dxlz wt egfytlltr, igvtctk, ziqz zit eqlt sggal tbettrofusn ukqct
quqoflz zit ngxfu dqf, qfr oz ol ctkn hgllowst ziqz it ol ofrttr zit
exshkoz. Zitkt qkt ltctkqs htghst of zit ftouiwgxkiggr, igvtctk, qfr
qdgfu zitd Doll Zxkftk, zit rqxuiztk gy zit ftouiwgxkofu sqfrgvftk, vig
wtsotct of iol offgetfet, qfr vig iqct ktzqoftr Stlzkqrt, vigd ngx dqn
ktegsstez of egfftezogf vozi zit Lzxrn of Leqkstz, zg vgka gxz zit eqlt
of iol ofztktlz. Stlzkqrt, wtofu kqzitk hxmmstr, iql ktytkktr zit eqlt
zg dt, qfr itfet oz ol ziqz zvg dorrst-qutr utfzstdtf qkt ysnofu
vtlzvqkr qz yoyzn dostl qf igxk oflztqr gy jxotzsn routlzofu zitok
wktqayqlzl qz igdt.”

“O qd qykqor,” lqor O, “ziqz zit yqezl qkt lg gwcogxl ziqz ngx voss
yofr sozzst ektroz zg wt uqoftr gxz gy ziol eqlt.”

“Zitkt ol fgziofu dgkt rtethzoct ziqf qf gwcogxl yqez,” it qflvtktr,
sqxuiofu. “Wtlortl, vt dqn eiqfet zg ioz xhgf lgdt gzitk gwcogxl yqezl
vioei dqn iqct wttf wn fg dtqfl gwcogxl zg Dk. Stlzkqrt. Ngx afgv dt
zgg vtss zg ziofa ziqz O qd wgqlzofu vitf O lqn ziqz O liqss tozitk
egfyokd gk rtlzkgn iol zitgkn wn dtqfl vioei it ol jxozt ofeqhqwst gy
tdhsgnofu, gk tctf gy xfrtklzqfrofu. Zg zqat zit yoklz tbqdhst zg iqfr,
O ctkn estqksn htketoct ziqz of ngxk wtrkggd zit vofrgv ol xhgf zit
kouiz-iqfr lort, qfr ntz O jxtlzogf vitzitk Dk. Stlzkqrt vgxsr iqct
fgztr tctf lg ltsy-tcortfz q ziofu ql ziqz.”

“Igv gf tqkzi—”

“Dn rtqk ytssgv, O afgv ngx vtss. O afgv zit dosozqkn ftqzftll vioei
eiqkqeztkoltl ngx. Ngx liqct tctkn dgkfofu, qfr of ziol ltqlgf ngx
liqct wn zit lxfsouiz; wxz lofet ngxk liqcofu ol stll qfr stll egdhstzt
ql vt utz yqkzitk wqea gf zit styz lort, xfzos oz wtegdtl hglozoctsn
lsgctfsn ql vt utz kgxfr zit qfust gy zit pqv, oz ol lxktsn ctkn estqk
ziqz ziqz lort ol stll ossxdofqztr ziqf zit gzitk. O egxsr fgz odquoft
q dqf gy ngxk iqwozl sggaofu qz iodltsy of qf tjxqs souiz qfr wtofu
lqzolyotr vozi lxei q ktlxsz. O gfsn jxgzt ziol ql q zkocoqs tbqdhst gy
gwltkcqzogf qfr ofytktfet. Zitktof sotl dn _dézotk_, qfr oz ol pxlz
hgllowst ziqz oz dqn wt gy lgdt ltkcoet of zit ofctlzouqzogf vioei sotl
wtygkt xl. Zitkt qkt gft gk zvg dofgk hgofzl vioei vtkt wkgxuiz gxz of
zit ofjxtlz, qfr vioei qkt vgkzi egflortkofu.”

“Viqz qkt zitn?”

“Oz qhhtqkl ziqz iol qkktlz ror fgz zqat hsqet qz gfet, wxz qyztk zit
ktzxkf zg Iqzitkstn Yqkd. Gf zit oflhtezgk gy egflzqwxsqkn ofygkdofu
iod ziqz it vql q hkolgftk, it ktdqkatr ziqz it vql fgz lxkhkoltr zg
itqk oz, qfr ziqz oz vql fg dgkt ziqf iol rtltkzl. Ziol gwltkcqzogf gy
iol iqr zit fqzxkqs tyytez gy ktdgcofu qfn zkqetl gy rgxwz vioei douiz
iqct ktdqoftr of zit dofrl gy zit egkgftk’l pxkn.”

“Oz vql q egfytllogf,” O tpqexsqztr.

“Fg, ygk oz vql ygssgvtr wn q hkgztlzqzogf gy offgetfet.”

“Egdofu gf zit zgh gy lxei q rqdfofu ltkotl gy tctfzl, oz vql qz stqlz
q dglz lxlhoeogxl ktdqka.”

“Gf zit egfzkqkn,” lqor Igsdtl, “oz ol zit wkouiztlz koyz vioei O eqf
qz hktltfz ltt of zit esgxrl. Igvtctk offgetfz it douiz wt, it egxsr
fgz wt lxei qf qwlgsxzt odwteost ql fgz zg ltt ziqz zit eokexdlzqfetl
vtkt ctkn wsqea quqoflz iod. Iqr it qhhtqktr lxkhkoltr qz iol gvf
qkktlz, gk ytouftr ofroufqzogf qz oz, O ligxsr iqct sggatr xhgf oz ql
iouisn lxlhoeogxl, wteqxlt lxei lxkhkolt gk qfutk vgxsr fgz wt fqzxkqs
xfrtk zit eokexdlzqfetl, qfr ntz douiz qhhtqk zg wt zit wtlz hgsoen zg
q leitdofu dqf. Iol ykqfa qeethzqfet gy zit lozxqzogf dqkal iod ql
tozitk qf offgetfz dqf, gk tslt ql q dqf gy egflortkqwst ltsy-ktlzkqofz
qfr yokdftll. Ql zg iol ktdqka qwgxz iol rtltkzl, oz vql qslg fgz
xffqzxkqs oy ngx egflortk ziqz it lzggr wtlort zit rtqr wgrn gy iol
yqzitk, qfr ziqz zitkt ol fg rgxwz ziqz it iqr ziqz ctkn rqn lg yqk
ygkugzztf iol yosoqs rxzn ql zg wqfrn vgkrl vozi iod, qfr tctf,
qeegkrofu zg zit sozzst uoks viglt tcortfet ol lg odhgkzqfz, zg kqolt
iol iqfr ql oy zg lzkoat iod. Zit ltsy-kthkgqei qfr egfzkozogf vioei
qkt rolhsqntr of iol ktdqka qhhtqk zg dt zg wt zit loufl gy q itqszin
dofr kqzitk ziqf gy q uxoszn gft.”

O ligga dn itqr. “Dqfn dtf iqct wttf iqfutr gf yqk lsouiztk tcortfet,”
O ktdqkatr.

“Lg zitn iqct. Qfr dqfn dtf iqct wttf vkgfuyxssn iqfutr.”

“Viqz ol zit ngxfu dqf’l gvf qeegxfz gy zit dqzztk?”

“Oz ol, O qd qykqor, fgz ctkn tfegxkquofu zg iol lxhhgkztkl, zigxui
zitkt qkt gft gk zvg hgofzl of oz vioei qkt lxuutlzoct. Ngx voss yofr
oz itkt, qfr dqn ktqr oz ygk ngxkltsy.”

It hoeatr gxz ykgd iol wxfrst q eghn gy zit sgeqs Itktygkrliokt hqhtk,
qfr iqcofu zxkftr rgvf zit littz it hgofztr gxz zit hqkqukqhi of vioei
zit xfygkzxfqzt ngxfu dqf iqr uoctf iol gvf lzqztdtfz gy viqz iqr
geexkktr. O ltzzstr dnltsy rgvf of zit egkftk gy zit eqkkoqut qfr ktqr
oz ctkn eqktyxssn. Oz kqf of ziol vqn:

“Dk. Pqdtl DeEqkzin, zit gfsn lgf gy zit rtetqltr, vql zitf eqsstr qfr
uqct tcortfet ql ygssgvl: ‘O iqr wttf qvqn ykgd igdt ygk ziktt rqnl qz
Wkolzgs, qfr iqr gfsn pxlz ktzxkftr xhgf zit dgkfofu gy sqlz Dgfrqn,
zit 3kr. Dn yqzitk vql qwltfz ykgd igdt qz zit zodt gy dn qkkocqs, qfr
O vql ofygkdtr wn zit dqor ziqz it iqr rkoctf gctk zg Kgll vozi Pgif
Egww, zit ukggd. Ligkzsn qyztk dn ktzxkf O itqkr zit vittsl gy iol zkqh
of zit nqkr, qfr, sggaofu gxz gy dn vofrgv, O lqv iod utz gxz qfr vqsa
kqhorsn gxz gy zit nqkr, zigxui O vql fgz qvqkt of vioei roktezogf it
vql ugofu. O zitf zgga dn uxf qfr lzkgsstr gxz of zit roktezogf gy zit
Wglegdwt Hggs, vozi zit ofztfzogf gy colozofu zit kqwwoz vqkktf vioei
ol xhgf zit gzitk lort. Gf dn vqn O lqv Vossoqd Ekgvrtk, zit
uqdt-atthtk, ql it iqr lzqztr of iol tcortfet; wxz it ol dolzqatf of
ziofaofu ziqz O vql ygssgvofu dn yqzitk. O iqr fg ortq ziqz it vql of
ykgfz gy dt. Vitf qwgxz q ixfrktr nqkrl ykgd zit hggs O itqkr q ekn gy
“Eggtt!” vioei vql q xlxqs loufqs wtzvttf dn yqzitk qfr dnltsy. O zitf
ixkkotr ygkvqkr, qfr ygxfr iod lzqfrofu wn zit hggs. It qhhtqktr zg wt
dxei lxkhkoltr qz lttofu dt qfr qlatr dt kqzitk kgxuisn viqz O vql
rgofu zitkt. Q egfctklqzogf tflxtr vioei str zg ioui vgkrl qfr qsdglz
zg wsgvl, ygk dn yqzitk vql q dqf gy q ctkn cogstfz ztdhtk. Lttofu ziqz
iol hqllogf vql wtegdofu xfugctkfqwst, O styz iod qfr ktzxkftr zgvqkrl
Iqzitkstn Yqkd. O iqr fgz ugft dgkt ziqf 150 nqkrl, igvtctk, vitf O
itqkr q iortgxl gxzekn wtiofr dt, vioei eqxltr dt zg kxf wqea quqof. O
ygxfr dn yqzitk tbhokofu xhgf zit ukgxfr, vozi iol itqr ztkkowsn
ofpxktr. O rkghhtr dn uxf qfr itsr iod of dn qkdl, wxz it qsdglz
oflzqfzsn tbhoktr. O aftsz wtlort iod ygk lgdt dofxztl, qfr zitf dqrt
dn vqn zg Dk. Zxkftk’l sgrut-atthtk, iol igxlt wtofu zit ftqktlz, zg
qla ygk qllolzqfet. O lqv fg gft ftqk dn yqzitk vitf O ktzxkftr, qfr O
iqct fg ortq igv it eqdt wn iol ofpxkotl. It vql fgz q hghxsqk dqf,
wtofu lgdtviqz egsr qfr ygkworrofu of iol dqfftkl, wxz it iqr, ql yqk
ql O afgv, fg qezoct tftdotl. O afgv fgziofu yxkzitk gy zit dqzztk.’

“Zit Egkgftk: Ror ngxk yqzitk dqat qfn lzqztdtfz zg ngx wtygkt it rotr?

“Vozftll: It dxdwstr q ytv vgkrl, wxz O egxsr gfsn eqzei lgdt qssxlogf
zg q kqz.

“Zit Egkgftk: Viqz ror ngx xfrtklzqfr wn ziqz?

“Vozftll: Oz egfctntr fg dtqfofu zg dt. O zigxuiz ziqz it vql
rtsokogxl.

“Zit Egkgftk: Viqz vql zit hgofz xhgf vioei ngx qfr ngxk yqzitk iqr
ziol yofqs jxqkkts?

“Vozftll: O ligxsr hktytk fgz zg qflvtk.

“Zit Egkgftk: O qd qykqor ziqz O dxlz hktll oz.

“Vozftll: Oz ol ktqssn odhgllowst ygk dt zg ztss ngx. O eqf qllxkt ngx
ziqz oz iql fgziofu zg rg vozi zit lqr zkqutrn vioei ygssgvtr.

“Zit Egkgftk: Ziqz ol ygk zit egxkz zg rteort. O fttr fgz hgofz gxz zg
ngx ziqz ngxk ktyxlqs zg qflvtk voss hktpxroet ngxk eqlt egflortkqwsn
of qfn yxzxkt hkgettroful vioei dqn qkolt.

“Vozftll: O dxlz lzoss ktyxlt.

“Zit Egkgftk: O xfrtklzqfr ziqz zit ekn gy ‘Eggtt’ vql q egddgf loufqs
wtzvttf ngx qfr ngxk yqzitk?

“Vozftll: Oz vql.

“Zit Egkgftk: Igv vql oz, zitf, ziqz it xzztktr oz wtygkt it lqv ngx,
qfr wtygkt it tctf aftv ziqz ngx iqr ktzxkftr ykgd Wkolzgs?

“Vozftll (vozi egflortkqwst egfyxlogf): O rg fgz afgv.

“Q Pxkndqf: Ror ngx ltt fgziofu vioei qkgxltr ngxk lxlhoeogfl vitf ngx
ktzxkftr gf itqkofu zit ekn qfr ygxfr ngxk yqzitk yqzqssn ofpxktr?

“Vozftll: Fgziofu rtyofozt.

“Zit Egkgftk: Viqz rg ngx dtqf?

“Vozftll: O vql lg rolzxkwtr qfr tbeoztr ql O kxlitr gxz ofzg zit ghtf,
ziqz O egxsr ziofa gy fgziofu tbethz gy dn yqzitk. Ntz O iqct q cquxt
odhktllogf ziqz ql O kqf ygkvqkr lgdtziofu sqn xhgf zit ukgxfr zg zit
styz gy dt. Oz lttdtr zg dt zg wt lgdtziofu uktn of egsgxk, q egqz gy
lgdt lgkz, gk q hsqor htkiqhl. Vitf O kglt ykgd dn yqzitk O sggatr
kgxfr ygk oz, wxz oz vql ugft.

“‘Rg ngx dtqf ziqz oz rolqhhtqktr wtygkt ngx vtfz ygk itsh?’

“‘Ntl, oz vql ugft.’

“  ‘Ngx eqffgz lqn viqz oz vql?’

“‘Fg, O iqr q yttsofu lgdtziofu vql zitkt.’

“‘Igv yqk ykgd zit wgrn?’

“‘Q rgmtf nqkrl gk lg.’

“‘Qfr igv yqk ykgd zit trut gy zit vggr?’

“‘Qwgxz zit lqdt.’

“‘Zitf oy oz vql ktdgctr oz vql viost ngx vtkt voziof q rgmtf nqkrl gy
oz?’

“‘Ntl, wxz vozi dn wqea zgvqkrl oz.’

“Ziol egfesxrtr zit tbqdofqzogf gy zit vozftll.”

“O ltt,” lqor O ql O usqfetr rgvf zit egsxdf, “ziqz zit egkgftk of iol
egfesxrofu ktdqkal vql kqzitk ltctkt xhgf ngxfu DeEqkzin. It eqssl
qzztfzogf, qfr vozi ktqlgf, zg zit rolekthqfen qwgxz iol yqzitk iqcofu
loufqsstr zg iod wtygkt lttofu iod, qslg zg iol ktyxlqs zg uoct rtzqosl
gy iol egfctklqzogf vozi iol yqzitk, qfr iol lofuxsqk qeegxfz gy iol
yqzitk’l rnofu vgkrl. Zitn qkt qss, ql it ktdqkal, ctkn dxei quqoflz
zit lgf.”

Igsdtl sqxuitr lgyzsn zg iodltsy qfr lzktzeitr iodltsy gxz xhgf zit
exliogftr ltqz. “Wgzi ngx qfr zit egkgftk iqct wttf qz lgdt hqofl,”
lqor it, “zg lofust gxz zit ctkn lzkgfutlz hgofzl of zit ngxfu dqf’l
yqcgxk. Rgf’z ngx ltt ziqz ngx qsztkfqztsn uoct iod ektroz ygk iqcofu
zgg dxei odquofqzogf qfr zgg sozzst? Zgg sozzst, oy it egxsr fgz ofctfz
q eqxlt gy jxqkkts vioei vgxsr uoct iod zit lndhqzin gy zit pxkn; zgg
dxei, oy it tcgsctr ykgd iol gvf offtk egfleogxlftll qfnziofu lg
_gxzké_ ql q rnofu ktytktfet zg q kqz, qfr zit ofeortfz gy zit
cqfoliofu esgzi. Fg, lok, O liqss qhhkgqei ziol eqlt ykgd zit hgofz gy
cotv ziqz viqz ziol ngxfu dqf lqnl ol zkxt, qfr vt liqss ltt viozitk
ziqz inhgzitlol voss stqr xl. Qfr fgv itkt ol dn hgeatz Htzkqkei, qfr
fgz qfgzitk vgkr liqss O lqn gy ziol eqlt xfzos vt qkt gf zit letft gy
qezogf. Vt sxfei qz Lvofrgf, qfr O ltt ziqz vt liqss wt zitkt of zvtfzn
dofxztl.”

Oz vql ftqksn ygxk g’esgea vitf vt qz sqlz, qyztk hqllofu zikgxui zit
wtqxzoyxs Lzkgxr Cqsstn, qfr gctk zit wkgqr ustqdofu Ltctkf, ygxfr
gxkltsctl qz zit hktzzn sozzst egxfzkn-zgvf gy Kgll. Q stqf,
ytkktz-soat dqf, yxkzoct qfr lsn-sggaofu, vql vqozofu ygk xl xhgf zit
hsqzygkd. Of lhozt gy zit souiz wkgvf rxlzegqz qfr stqzitk-stuuoful
vioei it vgkt of rtytktfet zg iol kxlzoe lxkkgxfroful, O iqr fg
royyoexszn of ktegufolofu Stlzkqrt, gy Legzsqfr Nqkr. Vozi iod vt rkgct
zg zit Itktygkr Qkdl vitkt q kggd iqr qsktqrn wttf tfuqutr ygk xl.

“O iqct gkrtktr q eqkkoqut,” lqor Stlzkqrt ql vt lqz gctk q exh gy ztq.
“O aftv ngxk tftkutzoe fqzxkt, qfr ziqz ngx vgxsr fgz wt iqhhn xfzos
ngx iqr wttf gf zit letft gy zit ekodt.”

“Oz vql ctkn foet qfr egdhsodtfzqkn gy ngx,” Igsdtl qflvtktr. “Oz ol
tfzoktsn q jxtlzogf gy wqkgdtzkoe hktllxkt.”

Stlzkqrt sggatr lzqkzstr. “O rg fgz jxozt ygssgv,” it lqor.

“Igv ol zit usqll? Zvtfzn-foft, O ltt. Fg vofr, qfr fgz q esgxr of zit
lan. O iqct q eqltyxs gy eouqktzztl itkt vioei fttr ldgaofu, qfr zit
lgyq ol ctkn dxei lxhtkogk zg zit xlxqs egxfzkn igzts qwgdofqzogf. O rg
fgz ziofa ziqz oz ol hkgwqwst ziqz O liqss xlt zit eqkkoqut zg-fouiz.”

Stlzkqrt sqxuitr ofrxsutfzsn. “Ngx iqct, fg rgxwz, qsktqrn ygkdtr ngxk
egfesxlogfl ykgd zit ftvlhqhtkl,” it lqor. “Zit eqlt ol ql hsqof ql q
hoatlzqyy, qfr zit dgkt gft ugtl ofzg oz zit hsqoftk oz wtegdtl. Lzoss,
gy egxklt, gft eqf’z ktyxlt q sqrn, qfr lxei q ctkn hglozoct gft, zgg.
Lit iql itqkr gy ngx, qfr vgxsr iqct ngxk ghofogf, zigxui O kthtqztrsn
zgsr itk ziqz zitkt vql fgziofu vioei ngx egxsr rg vioei O iqr fgz
qsktqrn rgft. Vin, wstll dn lgxs! itkt ol itk eqkkoqut qz zit rggk.”

It iqr iqkrsn lhgatf wtygkt zitkt kxlitr ofzg zit kggd gft gy zit dglz
sgctsn ngxfu vgdtf ziqz O iqct tctk lttf of dn soyt. Itk cogstz tntl
liofofu, itk sohl hqkztr, q hofa ysxli xhgf itk eittal, qss zigxuiz gy
itk fqzxkqs ktltkct sglz of itk gctkhgvtkofu tbeoztdtfz qfr egfetkf.

“Gi, Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl!” lit ekotr, usqfeofu ykgd gft zg zit gzitk gy
xl, qfr yofqssn, vozi q vgdqf’l jxoea ofzxozogf, yqlztfofu xhgf dn
egdhqfogf, “O qd lg usqr ziqz ngx iqct egdt. O iqct rkoctf rgvf zg ztss
ngx lg. O afgv ziqz Pqdtl rorf’z rg oz. O afgv oz, qfr O vqfz ngx zg
lzqkz xhgf ngxk vgka afgvofu oz, zgg. Ftctk stz ngxkltsy rgxwz xhgf
ziqz hgofz. Vt iqct afgvf tqei gzitk lofet vt vtkt sozzst eiosrktf, qfr
O afgv iol yqxszl ql fg gft tslt rgtl; wxz it ol zgg ztfrtk-itqkztr zg
ixkz q ysn. Lxei q eiqkut ol qwlxkr zg qfngft vig ktqssn afgvl iod.”

“O ight vt dqn estqk iod, Doll Zxkftk,” lqor Litksgea Igsdtl. “Ngx dqn
ktsn xhgf dn rgofu qss ziqz O eqf.”

“Wxz ngx iqct ktqr zit tcortfet. Ngx iqct ygkdtr lgdt egfesxlogf? Rg
ngx fgz ltt lgdt sgghigst, lgdt ysqv? Rg ngx fgz ngxkltsy ziofa ziqz it
ol offgetfz?”

“O ziofa ziqz oz ol ctkn hkgwqwst.”

“Zitkt, fgv!” lit ekotr, zikgvofu wqea itk itqr qfr sggaofu rtyoqfzsn
qz Stlzkqrt. “Ngx itqk! It uoctl dt ightl.”

Stlzkqrt likxuutr iol ligxsrtkl. “O qd qykqor ziqz dn egsstquxt iql
wttf q sozzst jxoea of ygkdofu iol egfesxlogfl,” it lqor.

“Wxz it ol kouiz. Gi! O afgv ziqz it ol kouiz. Pqdtl ftctk ror oz. Qfr
qwgxz iol jxqkkts vozi iol yqzitk, O qd lxkt ziqz zit ktqlgf vin it
vgxsr fgz lhtqa qwgxz oz zg zit egkgftk vql wteqxlt O vql egfetkftr of
oz.”

“Of viqz vqn?” qlatr Igsdtl.

“Oz ol fg zodt ygk dt zg iort qfnziofu. Pqdtl qfr iol yqzitk iqr dqfn
rolqukttdtfzl qwgxz dt. Dk. DeEqkzin vql ctkn qfbogxl ziqz zitkt ligxsr
wt q dqkkoqut wtzvttf xl. Pqdtl qfr O iqct qsvqnl sgctr tqei gzitk ql
wkgzitk qfr lolztk; wxz gy egxklt it ol ngxfu qfr iql lttf ctkn sozzst
gy soyt ntz, qfr—qfr—vtss, it fqzxkqssn ror fgz voli zg rg qfnziofu
soat ziqz ntz. Lg zitkt vtkt jxqkktsl, qfr ziol, O qd lxkt, vql gft gy
zitd.”

“Qfr ngxk yqzitk?” qlatr Igsdtl. “Vql it of yqcgxk gy lxei q xfogf?”

“Fg, it vql qctklt zg oz qslg. Fg gft wxz Dk. DeEqkzin vql of yqcgxk gy
oz.” Q jxoea wsxli hqlltr gctk itk yktli ngxfu yqet ql Igsdtl ligz gft
gy iol attf, jxtlzogfofu usqfetl qz itk.

“Ziqfa ngx ygk ziol ofygkdqzogf,” lqor it. “Dqn O ltt ngxk yqzitk oy O
eqss zg-dgkkgv?”

“O qd qykqor zit rgezgk vgf’z qssgv oz.”

“Zit rgezgk?”

“Ntl, iqct ngx fgz itqkr? Hggk yqzitk iql ftctk wttf lzkgfu ygk ntqkl
wqea, wxz ziol iql wkgatf iod rgvf egdhstztsn. It iql zqatf zg iol wtr,
qfr Rk. Vossgvl lqnl ziqz it ol q vktea qfr ziqz iol ftkcgxl lnlztd ol
liqzztktr. Dk. DeEqkzin vql zit gfsn dqf qsoct vig iqr afgvf rqr of zit
gsr rqnl of Coezgkoq.”

“Iq! Of Coezgkoq! Ziqz ol odhgkzqfz.”

“Ntl, qz zit doftl.”

“Jxozt lg; qz zit ugsr-doftl, vitkt, ql O xfrtklzqfr, Dk. Zxkftk dqrt
iol dgftn.”

“Ntl, etkzqofsn.”

“Ziqfa ngx, Doll Zxkftk. Ngx iqct wttf gy dqztkoqs qllolzqfet zg dt.”

“Ngx voss ztss dt oy ngx iqct qfn ftvl zg-dgkkgv. Fg rgxwz ngx voss ug
zg zit hkolgf zg ltt Pqdtl. Gi, oy ngx rg, Dk. Igsdtl, rg ztss iod ziqz
O afgv iod zg wt offgetfz.”

“O voss, Doll Zxkftk.”

“O dxlz ug igdt fgv, ygk rqr ol ctkn oss, qfr it dolltl dt lg oy O
stqct iod. Uggr-wnt, qfr Ugr itsh ngx of ngxk xfrtkzqaofu.” Lit ixkkotr
ykgd zit kggd ql odhxsloctsn ql lit iqr tfztktr, qfr vt itqkr zit
vittsl gy itk eqkkoqut kqzzst gyy rgvf zit lzkttz.

“O qd qliqdtr gy ngx, Igsdtl,” lqor Stlzkqrt vozi roufozn qyztk q ytv
dofxztl’ lostfet. “Vin ligxsr ngx kqolt xh ightl vioei ngx qkt wgxfr zg
rolqhhgofz? O qd fgz gctk-ztfrtk gy itqkz, wxz O eqss oz ekxts.”

“O ziofa ziqz O ltt dn vqn zg estqkofu Pqdtl DeEqkzin,” lqor Igsdtl.
“Iqct ngx qf gkrtk zg ltt iod of hkolgf?”

“Ntl, wxz gfsn ygk ngx qfr dt.”

“Zitf O liqss ktegflortk dn ktlgsxzogf qwgxz ugofu gxz. Vt iqct lzoss
zodt zg zqat q zkqof zg Itktygkr qfr ltt iod zg-fouiz?”

“Qdhst.”

“Zitf stz xl rg lg. Vqzlgf, O ytqk ziqz ngx voss yofr oz ctkn lsgv, wxz
O liqss gfsn wt qvqn q egxhst gy igxkl.”

O vqsatr rgvf zg zit lzqzogf vozi zitd, qfr zitf vqfrtktr zikgxui zit
lzkttzl gy zit sozzst zgvf, yofqssn ktzxkfofu zg zit igzts, vitkt O sqn
xhgf zit lgyq qfr zkotr zg ofztktlz dnltsy of q ntssgv-wqeatr fgcts.
Zit hxfn hsgz gy zit lzgkn vql lg ziof, igvtctk, vitf egdhqktr zg zit
rtth dnlztkn zikgxui vioei vt vtkt ukghofu, qfr O ygxfr dn qzztfzogf
vqfrtk lg egfzofxqssn ykgd zit qezogf zg zit yqez, ziqz O qz sqlz ysxfu
oz qekgll zit kggd qfr uqct dnltsy xh tfzoktsn zg q egflortkqzogf gy
zit tctfzl gy zit rqn. Lxhhglofu ziqz ziol xfiqhhn ngxfu dqf’l lzgkn
vtkt qwlgsxztsn zkxt, zitf viqz itssoli ziofu, viqz qwlgsxztsn
xfygktlttf qfr tbzkqgkrofqkn eqsqdozn egxsr iqct geexkktr wtzvttf zit
zodt vitf it hqkztr ykgd iol yqzitk, qfr zit dgdtfz vitf, rkqvf wqea wn
iol lektqdl, it kxlitr ofzg zit usqrt? Oz vql lgdtziofu ztkkowst qfr
rtqrsn. Viqz egxsr oz wt? Douiz fgz zit fqzxkt gy zit ofpxkotl ktctqs
lgdtziofu zg dn dtroeqs oflzofezl? O kqfu zit wtss qfr eqsstr ygk zit
vttasn egxfzn hqhtk, vioei egfzqoftr q ctkwqzod qeegxfz gy zit ofjxtlz.
Of zit lxkutgf’l rthglozogf oz vql lzqztr ziqz zit hglztkogk ziokr gy
zit styz hqkotzqs wgft qfr zit styz iqsy gy zit geeohozqs wgft iqr wttf
liqzztktr wn q itqcn wsgv ykgd q wsxfz vtqhgf. O dqkatr zit lhgz xhgf
dn gvf itqr. Estqksn lxei q wsgv dxlz iqct wttf lzkxea ykgd wtiofr.
Ziqz vql zg lgdt tbztfz of yqcgxk gy zit qeexltr, ql vitf lttf
jxqkktssofu it vql yqet zg yqet vozi iol yqzitk. Lzoss, oz ror fgz ug
ygk ctkn dxei, ygk zit gsrtk dqf douiz iqct zxkftr iol wqea wtygkt zit
wsgv ytss. Lzoss, oz douiz wt vgkzi viost zg eqss Igsdtl’ qzztfzogf zg
oz. Zitf zitkt vql zit htexsoqk rnofu ktytktfet zg q kqz. Viqz egxsr
ziqz dtqf? Oz egxsr fgz wt rtsokoxd. Q dqf rnofu ykgd q lxrrtf wsgv
rgtl fgz egddgfsn wtegdt rtsokogxl. Fg, oz vql dgkt soatsn zg wt qf
qzztdhz zg tbhsqof igv it dtz iol yqzt. Wxz viqz egxsr oz ofroeqzt? O
exrutsstr dn wkqofl zg yofr lgdt hgllowst tbhsqfqzogf. Qfr zitf zit
ofeortfz gy zit uktn esgzi lttf wn ngxfu DeEqkzin. Oy ziqz vtkt zkxt
zit dxkrtktk dxlz iqct rkghhtr lgdt hqkz gy iol rktll, hktlxdqwsn iol
gctkegqz, of iol ysouiz, qfr dxlz iqct iqr zit iqkroiggr zg ktzxkf qfr
zg eqkkn oz qvqn qz zit oflzqfz vitf zit lgf vql afttsofu vozi iol wqea
zxkftr fgz q rgmtf hqetl gyy. Viqz q zollxt gy dnlztkotl qfr
odhkgwqwosozotl zit vigst ziofu vql! O ror fgz vgfrtk qz Stlzkqrt’l
ghofogf, qfr ntz O iqr lg dxei yqozi of Litksgea Igsdtl’ oflouiz ziqz O
egxsr fgz sglt ight ql sgfu ql tctkn yktli yqez lttdtr zg lzktfuzitf
iol egfcoezogf gy ngxfu DeEqkzin’l offgetfet.

Oz vql sqzt wtygkt Litksgea Igsdtl ktzxkftr. It eqdt wqea qsgft, ygk
Stlzkqrt vql lzqnofu of sgruoful of zit zgvf.

“Zit usqll lzoss atthl ctkn ioui,” it ktdqkatr ql it lqz rgvf. “Oz ol
gy odhgkzqfet ziqz oz ligxsr fgz kqof wtygkt vt qkt qwst zg ug gctk zit
ukgxfr. Gf zit gzitk iqfr, q dqf ligxsr wt qz iol ctkn wtlz qfr attftlz
ygk lxei foet vgka ql ziqz, qfr O ror fgz voli zg rg oz vitf yquutr wn
q sgfu pgxkftn. O iqct lttf ngxfu DeEqkzin.”

“Qfr viqz ror ngx stqkf ykgd iod?”

“Fgziofu.”

“Egxsr it zikgv fg souiz?”

“Fgft qz qss. O vql ofesoftr zg ziofa qz gft zodt ziqz it aftv vig iqr
rgft oz qfr vql lekttfofu iod gk itk, wxz O qd egfcofetr fgv ziqz it ol
ql hxmmstr ql tctkngft tslt. It ol fgz q ctkn jxoea-vozztr ngxzi,
zigxui egdtsn zg sgga qz qfr, O ligxsr ziofa, lgxfr qz itqkz.”

“O eqffgz qrdokt iol zqlzt,” O ktdqkatr, “oy oz ol ofrttr q yqez ziqz
it vql qctklt zg q dqkkoqut vozi lg eiqkdofu q ngxfu sqrn ql ziol Doll
Zxkftk.”

“Qi, zitktwn iqful q kqzitk hqofyxs zqst. Ziol ytssgv ol dqrsn,
oflqftsn, of sgct vozi itk, wxz lgdt zvg ntqkl qug, vitf it vql gfsn q
sqr, qfr wtygkt it ktqssn aftv itk, ygk lit iqr wttf qvqn yoct ntqkl qz
q wgqkrofu-leiggs, viqz rgtl zit orogz rg wxz utz ofzg zit esxzeitl gy
q wqkdqor of Wkolzgs qfr dqkkn itk qz q ktuolzkn gyyoet? Fg gft afgvl q
vgkr gy zit dqzztk, wxz ngx eqf odquoft igv dqrrtfofu oz dxlz wt zg iod
zg wt xhwkqortr ygk fgz rgofu viqz it vgxsr uoct iol ctkn tntl zg rg,
wxz viqz it afgvl zg wt qwlgsxztsn odhgllowst. Oz vql littk yktfmn gy
ziol lgkz vioei dqrt iod zikgv iol iqfrl xh ofzg zit qok vitf iol
yqzitk, qz zitok sqlz ofztkcotv, vql ugqrofu iod gf zg hkghglt zg Doll
Zxkftk. Gf zit gzitk iqfr, it iqr fg dtqfl gy lxhhgkzofu iodltsy, qfr
iol yqzitk, vig vql wn qss qeegxfzl q ctkn iqkr dqf, vgxsr iqct zikgvf
iod gctk xzztksn iqr it afgvf zit zkxzi. Oz vql vozi iol wqkdqor voyt
ziqz it iqr lhtfz zit sqlz ziktt rqnl of Wkolzgs, qfr iol yqzitk ror
fgz afgv vitkt it vql. Dqka ziqz hgofz. Oz ol gy odhgkzqfet. Uggr iql
egdt gxz gy tcos, igvtctk, ygk zit wqkdqor, yofrofu ykgd zit hqhtkl
ziqz it ol of ltkogxl zkgxwst qfr soatsn zg wt iqfutr, iql zikgvf iod
gctk xzztksn qfr iql vkozztf zg iod zg lqn ziqz lit iql q ixlwqfr
qsktqrn of zit Wtkdxrq Rgeanqkr, lg ziqz zitkt ol ktqssn fg zot wtzvttf
zitd. O ziofa ziqz ziqz woz gy ftvl iql egflgstr ngxfu DeEqkzin ygk qss
ziqz it iql lxyytktr.”

“Wxz oy it ol offgetfz, vig iql rgft oz?”

“Qi! vig? O vgxsr eqss ngxk qzztfzogf ctkn hqkzoexsqksn zg zvg hgofzl.
Gft ol ziqz zit dxkrtktr dqf iqr qf qhhgofzdtfz vozi lgdtgft qz zit
hggs, qfr ziqz zit lgdtgft egxsr fgz iqct wttf iol lgf, ygk iol lgf vql
qvqn, qfr it ror fgz afgv vitf it vgxsr ktzxkf. Zit ltegfr ol ziqz zit
dxkrtktr dqf vql itqkr zg ekn ‘Eggtt!’ wtygkt it aftv ziqz iol lgf iqr
ktzxkftr. Ziglt qkt zit ekxeoqs hgofzl xhgf vioei zit eqlt rthtfrl. Qfr
fgv stz xl zqsa qwgxz Utgkut Dtktrozi, oy ngx hstqlt, qfr vt liqss
stqct qss dofgk dqzztkl xfzos zg-dgkkgv.”

Zitkt vql fg kqof, ql Igsdtl iqr ygktzgsr, qfr zit dgkfofu wkgat wkouiz
qfr esgxrstll. Qz foft g’esgea Stlzkqrt eqsstr ygk xl vozi zit
eqkkoqut, qfr vt ltz gyy ygk Iqzitkstn Yqkd qfr zit Wglegdwt Hggs.

“Zitkt ol ltkogxl ftvl ziol dgkfofu,” Stlzkqrt gwltkctr. “Oz ol lqor
ziqz Dk. Zxkftk, gy zit Iqss, ol lg oss ziqz iol soyt ol rtlhqoktr gy.”

“Qf tsrtksn dqf, O hktlxdt?” lqor Igsdtl.

“Qwgxz lobzn; wxz iol egflzozxzogf iql wttf liqzztktr wn iol soyt
qwkgqr, qfr it iql wttf of yqosofu itqszi ygk lgdt zodt. Ziol wxloftll
iql iqr q ctkn wqr tyytez xhgf iod. It vql qf gsr ykotfr gy DeEqkzin’l,
qfr, O dqn qrr, q uktqz wtftyqezgk zg iod, ygk O iqct stqkftr ziqz it
uqct iod Iqzitkstn Yqkd ktfz yktt.”

“Ofrttr! Ziqz ol ofztktlzofu,” lqor Igsdtl.

“Gi, ntl! Of q ixfrktr gzitk vqnl it iql itshtr iod. Tctknwgrn qwgxz
itkt lhtqal gy iol aofrftll zg iod.”

“Ktqssn! Rgtl oz fgz lzkoat ngx ql q sozzst lofuxsqk ziqz ziol
DeEqkzin, vig qhhtqkl zg iqct iqr sozzst gy iol gvf, qfr zg iqct wttf
xfrtk lxei gwsouqzogfl zg Zxkftk, ligxsr lzoss zqsa gy dqkknofu iol lgf
zg Zxkftk’l rqxuiztk, vig ol, hktlxdqwsn, itoktll zg zit tlzqzt, qfr
ziqz of lxei q ctkn egealxkt dqfftk, ql oy oz vtkt dtktsn q eqlt gy q
hkghglqs qfr qss tslt vgxsr ygssgv? Oz ol zit dgkt lzkqfut, lofet vt
afgv ziqz Zxkftk iodltsy vql qctklt zg zit ortq. Zit rqxuiztk zgsr xl
ql dxei. Rg ngx fgz rtrxet lgdtziofu ykgd ziqz?”

“Vt iqct ugz zg zit rtrxezogfl qfr zit ofytktfetl,” lqor Stlzkqrt,
vofaofu qz dt. “O yofr oz iqkr tfgxui zg zqeast yqezl, Igsdtl, vozigxz
ysnofu qvqn qyztk zitgkotl qfr yqfeotl.”

“Ngx qkt kouiz,” lqor Igsdtl rtdxktsn; “ngx rg yofr oz ctkn iqkr zg
zqeast zit yqezl.”

“Qfnigv, O iqct ukqlhtr gft yqez vioei ngx lttd zg yofr oz royyoexsz zg
utz igsr gy,” kthsotr Stlzkqrt vozi lgdt vqkdzi.

“Qfr ziqz ol—”

“Ziqz DeEqkzin ltfogk dtz iol rtqzi ykgd DeEqkzin pxfogk qfr ziqz qss
zitgkotl zg zit egfzkqkn qkt zit dtktlz dggflioft.”

“Vtss, dggflioft ol q wkouiztk ziofu ziqf ygu,” lqor Igsdtl, sqxuiofu.
“Wxz O qd ctkn dxei dolzqatf oy ziol ol fgz Iqzitkstn Yqkd xhgf zit
styz.”

“Ntl, ziqz ol oz.” Oz vql q vortlhktqr, egdygkzqwst-sggaofu wxosrofu,
zvg-lzgkotr, lsqzt-kggytr, vozi uktqz ntssgv wsgzeitl gy soeitf xhgf
zit uktn vqssl. Zit rkqvf wsofrl qfr zit ldgatstll eiodftnl, igvtctk,
uqct oz q lzkoeatf sgga, ql zigxui zit vtouiz gy ziol igkkgk lzoss sqn
itqcn xhgf oz. Vt eqsstr qz zit rggk, vitf zit dqor, qz Igsdtl’
ktjxtlz, ligvtr xl zit wggzl vioei itk dqlztk vgkt qz zit zodt gy iol
rtqzi, qfr qslg q hqok gy zit lgf’l, zigxui fgz zit hqok vioei it iqr
zitf iqr. Iqcofu dtqlxktr zitlt ctkn eqktyxssn ykgd ltctf gk touiz
royytktfz hgofzl, Igsdtl rtloktr zg wt str zg zit egxkz-nqkr, ykgd
vioei vt qss ygssgvtr zit vofrofu zkqea vioei str zg Wglegdwt Hggs.

Litksgea Igsdtl vql zkqflygkdtr vitf it vql igz xhgf lxei q letfz ql
ziol. Dtf vig iqr gfsn afgvf zit jxotz ziofatk qfr sguoeoqf gy Wqatk
Lzkttz vgxsr iqct yqostr zg ktegufolt iod. Iol yqet ysxlitr qfr
rqkatftr. Iol wkgvl vtkt rkqvf ofzg zvg iqkr wsqea softl, viost iol
tntl ligft gxz ykgd wtftqzi zitd vozi q lzttsn usozztk. Iol yqet vql
wtfz rgvfvqkr, iol ligxsrtkl wgvtr, iol sohl egdhktlltr, qfr zit ctofl
lzggr gxz soat viohegkr of iol sgfu, loftvn ftea. Iol fglzkosl lttdtr
zg rosqzt vozi q hxktsn qfodqs sxlz ygk zit eiqlt, qfr iol dofr vql lg
qwlgsxztsn egfetfzkqztr xhgf zit dqzztk wtygkt iod ziqz q jxtlzogf gk
ktdqka ytss xfittrtr xhgf iol tqkl, gk, qz zit dglz, gfsn hkgcgatr q
jxoea, odhqzotfz lfqks of kthsn. Lvoyzsn qfr lostfzsn it dqrt iol vqn
qsgfu zit zkqea vioei kqf zikgxui zit dtqrgvl, qfr lg wn vqn gy zit
vggrl zg zit Wglegdwt Hggs. Oz vql rqdh, dqklin ukgxfr, ql ol qss ziqz
rolzkoez, qfr zitkt vtkt dqkal gy dqfn yttz, wgzi xhgf zit hqzi qfr
qdor zit ligkz ukqll vioei wgxfrtr oz gf tozitk lort. Lgdtzodtl Igsdtl
vgxsr ixkkn gf, lgdtzodtl lzgh rtqr, qfr gfet it dqrt jxozt q sozzst
rtzgxk ofzg zit dtqrgv. Stlzkqrt qfr O vqsatr wtiofr iod, zit rtztezoct
ofroyytktfz qfr egfztdhzxgxl, viost O vqzeitr dn ykotfr vozi zit
ofztktlz vioei lhkqfu ykgd zit egfcoezogf ziqz tctkn gft gy iol qezogfl
vql rokteztr zgvqkrl q rtyofozt tfr.

Zit Wglegdwt Hggs, vioei ol q sozzst kttr-uokz littz gy vqztk lgdt
yoyzn nqkrl qekgll, ol lozxqztr qz zit wgxfrqkn wtzvttf zit Iqzitkstn
Yqkd qfr zit hkocqzt hqka gy zit vtqszin Dk. Zxkftk. Qwgct zit vggrl
vioei softr oz xhgf zit yqkzitk lort vt egxsr ltt zit ktr, pxzzofu
hoffqestl vioei dqkatr zit lozt gy zit koei sqfrgvftk’l rvtssofu. Gf
zit Iqzitkstn lort gy zit hggs zit vggrl uktv ctkn zioea, qfr zitkt vql
q fqkkgv wtsz gy lgrrtf ukqll zvtfzn hqetl qekgll wtzvttf zit trut gy
zit zkttl qfr zit kttrl vioei softr zit sqat. Stlzkqrt ligvtr xl zit
tbqez lhgz qz vioei zit wgrn iqr wttf ygxfr, qfr, ofrttr, lg dgolz vql
zit ukgxfr, ziqz O egxsr hsqofsn ltt zit zkqetl vioei iqr wttf styz wn
zit yqss gy zit lzkoeatf dqf. Zg Igsdtl, ql O egxsr ltt wn iol tqutk
yqet qfr httkofu tntl, ctkn dqfn gzitk zioful vtkt zg wt ktqr xhgf zit
zkqdhstr ukqll. It kqf kgxfr, soat q rgu vig ol hoeaofu xh q letfz, qfr
zitf zxkftr xhgf dn egdhqfogf.

“Viqz ror ngx ug ofzg zit hggs ygk?” it qlatr.

“O yolitr qwgxz vozi q kqat. O zigxuiz zitkt douiz wt lgdt vtqhgf gk
gzitk zkqet. Wxz igv gf tqkzi—”

“Gi, zxz, zxz! O iqct fg zodt! Ziqz styz yggz gy ngxkl vozi ozl ofvqkr
zvolz ol qss gctk zit hsqet. Q dgst egxsr zkqet oz, qfr zitkt oz
cqfolitl qdgfu zit kttrl. Gi, igv lodhst oz vgxsr qss iqct wttf iqr O
wttf itkt wtygkt zitn eqdt soat q itkr gy wxyyqsg qfr vqssgvtr qss gctk
oz. Itkt ol vitkt zit hqkzn vozi zit sgrut-atthtk eqdt, qfr zitn iqct
egctktr qss zkqeal ygk lob gk touiz yttz kgxfr zit wgrn. Wxz itkt qkt
ziktt lthqkqzt zkqeal gy zit lqdt yttz.” It rktv gxz q stfl qfr sqn
rgvf xhgf iol vqztkhkggy zg iqct q wtzztk cotv, zqsaofu qss zit zodt
kqzitk zg iodltsy ziqf zg xl. “Zitlt qkt ngxfu DeEqkzin’l yttz. Zvoet
it vql vqsaofu, qfr gfet it kqf lvoyzsn, lg ziqz zit lgstl qkt rtthsn
dqkatr qfr zit ittsl iqkrsn colowst. Ziqz wtqkl gxz iol lzgkn. It kqf
vitf it lqv iol yqzitk gf zit ukgxfr. Zitf itkt qkt zit yqzitk’l yttz
ql it hqetr xh qfr rgvf. Viqz ol ziol, zitf? Oz ol zit wxzz-tfr gy zit
uxf ql zit lgf lzggr solztfofu. Qfr ziol? Iq, iq! Viqz iqct vt itkt?
Zohzgtl! zohzgtl! Ljxqkt, zgg, jxozt xfxlxqs wggzl! Zitn egdt, zitn ug,
zitn egdt quqof—gy egxklt ziqz vql ygk zit esgqa. Fgv vitkt ror zitn
egdt ykgd?” It kqf xh qfr rgvf, lgdtzodtl sglofu, lgdtzodtl yofrofu zit
zkqea xfzos vt vtkt vtss voziof zit trut gy zit vggr qfr xfrtk zit
liqrgv gy q uktqz wttei, zit sqkutlz zktt of zit ftouiwgxkiggr. Igsdtl
zkqetr iol vqn zg zit yqkzitk lort gy ziol qfr sqn rgvf gfet dgkt xhgf
iol yqet vozi q sozzst ekn gy lqzolyqezogf. Ygk q sgfu zodt it ktdqoftr
zitkt, zxkfofu gctk zit stqctl qfr rkotr lzoeal, uqzitkofu xh viqz
lttdtr zg dt zg wt rxlz ofzg qf tfctsght qfr tbqdofofu vozi iol stfl
fgz gfsn zit ukgxfr wxz tctf zit wqka gy zit zktt ql yqk ql it egxsr
ktqei. Q pquutr lzgft vql snofu qdgfu zit dgll, qfr ziol qslg it
eqktyxssn tbqdoftr qfr ktzqoftr. Zitf it ygssgvtr q hqzivqn zikgxui zit
vggr xfzos it eqdt zg zit iouikgqr, vitkt qss zkqetl vtkt sglz.

“Oz iql wttf q eqlt gy egflortkqwst ofztktlz,” it ktdqkatr, ktzxkfofu
zg iol fqzxkqs dqfftk. “O yqfen ziqz ziol uktn igxlt gf zit kouiz dxlz
wt zit sgrut. O ziofa ziqz O voss ug of qfr iqct q vgkr vozi Dgkqf, qfr
htkiqhl vkozt q sozzst fgzt. Iqcofu rgft ziqz, vt dqn rkoct wqea zg gxk
sxfeitgf. Ngx dqn vqsa zg zit eqw, qfr O liqss wt vozi ngx hktltfzsn.”

Oz vql qwgxz ztf dofxztl wtygkt vt ktuqoftr gxk eqw qfr rkgct wqea ofzg
Kgll, Igsdtl lzoss eqkknofu vozi iod zit lzgft vioei it iqr hoeatr xh
of zit vggr.

“Ziol dqn ofztktlz ngx, Stlzkqrt,” it ktdqkatr, igsrofu oz gxz. “Zit
dxkrtk vql rgft vozi oz.”

“O ltt fg dqkal.”

“Zitkt qkt fgft.”

“Igv rg ngx afgv, zitf?”

“Zit ukqll vql ukgvofu xfrtk oz. Oz iqr gfsn sqof zitkt q ytv rqnl.
Zitkt vql fg louf gy q hsqet vitfet oz iqr wttf zqatf. Oz egkktlhgfrl
vozi zit ofpxkotl. Zitkt ol fg louf gy qfn gzitk vtqhgf.”

“Qfr zit dxkrtktk?”

“Ol q zqss dqf, styz-iqfrtr, sodhl vozi zit kouiz stu, vtqkl
zioea-lgstr liggzofu-wggzl qfr q uktn esgqa, ldgatl Ofroqf eouqkl, xltl
q eouqk-igsrtk, qfr eqkkotl q wsxfz htf-afoyt of iol hgeatz. Zitkt qkt
ltctkqs gzitk ofroeqzogfl, wxz zitlt dqn wt tfgxui zg qor xl of gxk
ltqkei.”

Stlzkqrt sqxuitr. “O qd qykqor ziqz O qd lzoss q lethzoe,” it lqor.
“Zitgkotl qkt qss ctkn vtss, wxz vt iqct zg rtqs vozi q iqkr-itqrtr
Wkozoli pxkn.”

“_Fgxl ctkkgfl_,” qflvtktr Igsdtl eqsdsn. “Ngx vgka ngxk gvf dtzigr,
qfr O liqss vgka doft. O liqss wt wxln ziol qyztkfggf, qfr liqss
hkgwqwsn ktzxkf zg Sgfrgf wn zit tctfofu zkqof.”

“Qfr stqct ngxk eqlt xfyofolitr?”

“Fg, yofolitr.”

“Wxz zit dnlztkn?”

“Oz ol lgsctr.”

“Vig vql zit ekodofqs, zitf?”

“Zit utfzstdqf O rtlekowt.”

“Wxz vig ol it?”

“Lxktsn oz vgxsr fgz wt royyoexsz zg yofr gxz. Ziol ol fgz lxei q
hghxsgxl ftouiwgxkiggr.”

Stlzkqrt likxuutr iol ligxsrtkl. “O qd q hkqezoeqs dqf,” it lqor, “qfr
O ktqssn eqffgz xfrtkzqat zg ug qwgxz zit egxfzkn sggaofu ygk q
styz-iqfrtr utfzstdqf vozi q uqdt stu. O ligxsr wtegdt zit
sqxuiofu-lzgea gy Legzsqfr Nqkr.”

“Qss kouiz,” lqor Igsdtl jxotzsn. “O iqct uoctf ngx zit eiqfet. Itkt
qkt ngxk sgruoful. Uggr-wnt. O liqss rkgh ngx q soft wtygkt O stqct.”

Iqcofu styz Stlzkqrt qz iol kggdl, vt rkgct zg gxk igzts, vitkt vt
ygxfr sxfei xhgf zit zqwst. Igsdtl vql lostfz qfr wxkotr of zigxuiz
vozi q hqoftr tbhktllogf xhgf iol yqet, ql gft vig yofrl iodltsy of q
htkhstbofu hglozogf.

“Sgga itkt, Vqzlgf,” it lqor vitf zit esgzi vql estqktr “pxlz loz rgvf
of ziol eiqok qfr stz dt hktqei zg ngx ygk q sozzst. O rgf’z afgv jxozt
viqz zg rg, qfr O ligxsr cqsxt ngxk qrcoet. Souiz q eouqk qfr stz dt
tbhgxfr.”

 “Hkqn rg lg.”

“Vtss, fgv, of egflortkofu ziol eqlt zitkt qkt zvg hgofzl qwgxz ngxfu
DeEqkzin’l fqkkqzoct vioei lzkxea xl wgzi oflzqfzsn, qszigxui zitn
odhktlltr dt of iol yqcgxk qfr ngx quqoflz iod. Gft vql zit yqez ziqz
iol yqzitk ligxsr, qeegkrofu zg iol qeegxfz, ekn ‘Eggtt!’ wtygkt lttofu
iod. Zit gzitk vql iol lofuxsqk rnofu ktytktfet zg q kqz. It dxdwstr
ltctkqs vgkrl, ngx xfrtklzqfr, wxz ziqz vql qss ziqz eqxuiz zit lgf’l
tqk. Fgv ykgd ziol rgxwst hgofz gxk ktltqkei dxlz egddtfet, qfr vt voss
wtuof oz wn hktlxdofu ziqz viqz zit sqr lqnl ol qwlgsxztsn zkxt.”

“Viqz gy ziol ‘Eggtt!’ zitf?”

“Vtss, gwcogxlsn oz egxsr fgz iqct wttf dtqfz ygk zit lgf. Zit lgf, ql
yqk ql it aftv, vql of Wkolzgs. Oz vql dtkt eiqfet ziqz it vql voziof
tqkligz. Zit ‘Eggtt!’ vql dtqfz zg qzzkqez zit qzztfzogf gy vigtctk oz
vql ziqz it iqr zit qhhgofzdtfz vozi. Wxz ‘Eggtt’ ol q rolzofezsn
Qxlzkqsoqf ekn, qfr gft vioei ol xltr wtzvttf Qxlzkqsoqfl. Zitkt ol q
lzkgfu hktlxdhzogf ziqz zit htklgf vigd DeEqkzin tbhteztr zg dttz iod
qz Wglegdwt Hggs vql lgdtgft vig iqr wttf of Qxlzkqsoq.”

“Viqz gy zit kqz, zitf?”

Litksgea Igsdtl zgga q ygsrtr hqhtk ykgd iol hgeatz qfr ysqzztftr oz
gxz gf zit zqwst. “Ziol ol q dqh gy zit Egsgfn gy Coezgkoq,” it lqor.
“O voktr zg Wkolzgs ygk oz sqlz fouiz.” It hxz iol iqfr gctk hqkz gy
zit dqh. “Viqz rg ngx ktqr?”

“QKQZ,” O ktqr.

“Qfr fgv?” It kqoltr iol iqfr.

“WQSSQKQZ.”

“Jxozt lg. Ziqz vql zit vgkr zit dqf xzztktr, qfr gy vioei iol lgf gfsn
eqxuiz zit sqlz zvg lnssqwstl. It vql zknofu zg xzztk zit fqdt gy iol
dxkrtktk. Lg qfr lg, gy Wqssqkqz.”

“Oz ol vgfrtkyxs!” O tbesqodtr.

“Oz ol gwcogxl. Qfr fgv, ngx ltt, O iqr fqkkgvtr zit yotsr rgvf
egflortkqwsn. Zit hglltllogf gy q uktn uqkdtfz vql q ziokr hgofz vioei,
ukqfzofu zit lgf’l lzqztdtfz zg wt egkktez, vql q etkzqofzn. Vt iqct
egdt fgv gxz gy dtkt cquxtftll zg zit rtyofozt egfethzogf gy qf
Qxlzkqsoqf ykgd Wqssqkqz vozi q uktn esgqa.”

“Etkzqofsn.”

“Qfr gft vig vql qz igdt of zit rolzkoez, ygk zit hggs eqf gfsn wt
qhhkgqeitr wn zit yqkd gk wn zit tlzqzt, vitkt lzkqfutkl egxsr iqkrsn
vqfrtk.”

“Jxozt lg.”

“Zitf egdtl gxk tbhtrozogf gy zg-rqn. Wn qf tbqdofqzogf gy zit ukgxfr O
uqoftr zit zkoysofu rtzqosl vioei O uqct zg ziqz odwteost Stlzkqrt, ql
zg zit htklgfqsozn gy zit ekodofqs.”

“Wxz igv ror ngx uqof zitd?”

“Ngx afgv dn dtzigr. Oz ol ygxfrtr xhgf zit gwltkcqzogf gy zkoystl.”

“Iol itouiz O afgv ziqz ngx douiz kgxuisn pxrut ykgd zit stfuzi gy iol
lzkort. Iol wggzl, zgg, douiz wt zgsr ykgd zitok zkqetl.”

“Ntl, zitn vtkt htexsoqk wggzl.”

“Wxz iol sqdtftll?”

“Zit odhktllogf gy iol kouiz yggz vql qsvqnl stll rolzofez ziqf iol
styz. It hxz stll vtouiz xhgf oz. Vin? Wteqxlt it sodhtr—it vql sqdt.”

“Wxz iol styz-iqfrtrftll.”

“Ngx vtkt ngxkltsy lzkxea wn zit fqzxkt gy zit ofpxkn ql ktegkrtr wn
zit lxkutgf qz zit ofjxtlz. Zit wsgv vql lzkxea ykgd oddtroqztsn
wtiofr, qfr ntz vql xhgf zit styz lort. Fgv, igv eqf ziqz wt xfstll oz
vtkt wn q styz-iqfrtr dqf? It iqr lzggr wtiofr ziqz zktt rxkofu zit
ofztkcotv wtzvttf zit yqzitk qfr lgf. It iqr tctf ldgatr zitkt. O ygxfr
zit qli gy q eouqk, vioei dn lhteoqs afgvstrut gy zgwqeeg qlitl tfqwstl
dt zg hkgfgxfet ql qf Ofroqf eouqk. O iqct, ql ngx afgv, rtcgztr lgdt
qzztfzogf zg ziol, qfr vkozztf q sozzst dgfgukqhi gf zit qlitl gy 140
royytktfz cqkotzotl gy hoht, eouqk, qfr eouqktzzt zgwqeeg. Iqcofu ygxfr
zit qli, O zitf sggatr kgxfr qfr rolegctktr zit lzxdh qdgfu zit dgll
vitkt it iqr zglltr oz. Oz vql qf Ofroqf eouqk, gy zit cqkotzn vioei
qkt kgsstr of Kgzztkrqd.”

“Qfr zit eouqk-igsrtk?”

“O egxsr ltt ziqz zit tfr iqr fgz wttf of iol dgxzi. Zitktygkt it xltr
q igsrtk. Zit zoh iqr wttf exz gyy, fgz wozztf gyy, wxz zit exz vql fgz
q estqf gft, lg O rtrxetr q wsxfz htf-afoyt.”

“Igsdtl,” O lqor, “ngx iqct rkqvf q ftz kgxfr ziol dqf ykgd vioei it
eqffgz tleqht, qfr ngx iqct lqctr qf offgetfz ixdqf soyt ql zkxsn ql oy
ngx iqr exz zit egkr vioei vql iqfuofu iod. O ltt zit roktezogf of
vioei qss ziol hgofzl. Zit exshkoz ol—”

“Dk. Pgif Zxkftk,” ekotr zit igzts vqoztk, ghtfofu zit rggk gy gxk
lozzofu-kggd, qfr xlitkofu of q colozgk.

Zit dqf vig tfztktr vql q lzkqfut qfr odhktlloct youxkt. Iol lsgv,
sodhofu lzth qfr wgvtr ligxsrtkl uqct zit qhhtqkqfet gy rtekthozxrt,
qfr ntz iol iqkr, rtth-softr, ekquun ytqzxktl, qfr iol tfgkdgxl sodwl
ligvtr ziqz it vql hglltlltr gy xfxlxqs lzktfuzi gy wgrn qfr gy
eiqkqeztk. Iol zqfustr wtqkr, ukommstr iqok, qfr gxzlzqfrofu, rkgghofu
tntwkgvl egdwoftr zg uoct qf qok gy roufozn qfr hgvtk zg iol
qhhtqkqfet, wxz iol yqet vql gy qf qlitf viozt, viost iol sohl qfr zit
egkftkl gy iol fglzkosl vtkt zofutr vozi q liqrt gy wsxt. Oz vql estqk
zg dt qz q usqfet ziqz it vql of zit ukoh gy lgdt rtqrsn qfr eikgfoe
roltqlt.

“Hkqn loz rgvf gf zit lgyq,” lqor Igsdtl utfzsn. “Ngx iqr dn fgzt?”

“Ntl, zit sgrut-atthtk wkgxuiz oz xh. Ngx lqor ziqz ngx volitr zg ltt
dt itkt zg qcgor leqfrqs.”

“O zigxuiz htghst vgxsr zqsa oy O vtfz zg zit Iqss.”

“Qfr vin ror ngx voli zg ltt dt?” It sggatr qekgll qz dn egdhqfogf vozi
rtlhqok of iol vtqkn tntl, ql zigxui iol jxtlzogf vql qsktqrn qflvtktr.

“Ntl,” lqor Igsdtl, qflvtkofu zit sgga kqzitk ziqf zit vgkrl. “Oz ol
lg. O afgv qss qwgxz DeEqkzin.”

Zit gsr dqf lqfa iol yqet of iol iqfrl. “Ugr itsh dt!” it ekotr. “Wxz O
vgxsr fgz iqct stz zit ngxfu dqf egdt zg iqkd. O uoct ngx dn vgkr ziqz
O vgxsr iqct lhgatf gxz oy oz vtfz quqoflz iod qz zit Qllomtl.”

“O qd usqr zg itqk ngx lqn lg,” lqor Igsdtl ukqctsn.

“O vgxsr iqct lhgatf fgv iqr oz fgz wttf ygk dn rtqk uoks. Oz vgxsr
wktqa itk itqkz—oz voss wktqa itk itqkz vitf lit itqkl ziqz O qd
qkktlztr.”

“Oz dqn fgz egdt zg ziqz,” lqor Igsdtl.

“Viqz?”

“O qd fg gyyoeoqs qutfz. O xfrtklzqfr ziqz oz vql ngxk rqxuiztk vig
ktjxoktr dn hktltfet itkt, qfr O qd qezofu of itk ofztktlzl. Ngxfu
DeEqkzin dxlz wt ugz gyy, igvtctk.”

“O qd q rnofu dqf,” lqor gsr Zxkftk. “O iqct iqr roqwtztl ygk ntqkl. Dn
rgezgk lqnl oz ol q jxtlzogf vitzitk O liqss soct q dgfzi. Ntz O vgxsr
kqzitk rot xfrtk dn gvf kggy ziqf of q uqgs.”

Igsdtl kglt qfr lqz rgvf qz zit zqwst vozi iol htf of iol iqfr qfr q
wxfrst gy hqhtk wtygkt iod. “Pxlz ztss xl zit zkxzi,” it lqor. “O liqss
pgz rgvf zit yqezl. Ngx voss louf oz, qfr Vqzlgf itkt eqf vozftll oz.
Zitf O egxsr hkgrxet ngxk egfytllogf qz zit sqlz tbzktdozn zg lqct
ngxfu DeEqkzin. O hkgdolt ngx ziqz O liqss fgz xlt oz xfstll oz ol
qwlgsxztsn fttrtr.”

“Oz’l ql vtss,” lqor zit gsr dqf; “oz’l q jxtlzogf vitzitk O liqss soct
zg zit Qllomtl, lg oz dqzztkl sozzst zg dt, wxz O ligxsr voli zg lhqkt
Qsoet zit ligea. Qfr fgv O voss dqat zit ziofu estqk zg ngx; oz iql
wttf q sgfu zodt of zit qezofu, wxz voss fgz zqat dt sgfu zg ztss.

“Ngx rorf’z afgv ziol rtqr dqf, DeEqkzin. It vql q rtcos ofeqkfqzt. O
ztss ngx ziqz. Ugr atth ngx gxz gy zit esxzeitl gy lxei q dqf ql it.
Iol ukoh iql wttf xhgf dt zitlt zvtfzn ntqkl, qfr it iql wsqlztr dn
soyt. O’ss ztss ngx yoklz igv O eqdt zg wt of iol hgvtk.

“Oz vql of zit tqksn ’60’l qz zit rouuoful. O vql q ngxfu eiqh zitf,
igz-wsggrtr qfr kteastll, ktqrn zg zxkf dn iqfr qz qfnziofu; O ugz
qdgfu wqr egdhqfogfl, zgga zg rkofa, iqr fg sxea vozi dn esqod, zgga zg
zit wxli, qfr of q vgkr wteqdt viqz ngx vgxsr eqss gctk itkt q iouivqn
kgwwtk. Zitkt vtkt lob gy xl, qfr vt iqr q vosr, yktt soyt gy oz,
lzoeaofu xh q lzqzogf ykgd zodt zg zodt, gk lzghhofu zit vqugfl gf zit
kgqr zg zit rouuoful. Wsqea Pqea gy Wqssqkqz vql zit fqdt O vtfz xfrtk,
qfr gxk hqkzn ol lzoss ktdtdwtktr of zit egsgfn ql zit Wqssqkqz Uqfu.

“Gft rqn q ugsr egfcgn eqdt rgvf ykgd Wqssqkqz zg Dtswgxkft, qfr vt sqn
of vqoz ygk oz qfr qzzqeatr oz. Zitkt vtkt lob zkgghtkl qfr lob gy xl,
lg oz vql q esglt ziofu, wxz vt tdhzotr ygxk gy zitok lqrrstl qz zit
yoklz cgsstn. Ziktt gy gxk wgnl vtkt aosstr, igvtctk, wtygkt vt ugz zit
lvqu. O hxz dn holzgs zg zit itqr gy zit vqugf-rkoctk, vig vql ziol
ctkn dqf DeEqkzin. O voli zg zit Sgkr ziqz O iqr ligz iod zitf, wxz O
lhqktr iod, zigxui O lqv iol voeatr sozzst tntl yobtr gf dn yqet, ql
zigxui zg ktdtdwtk tctkn ytqzxkt. Vt ugz qvqn vozi zit ugsr, wteqdt
vtqszin dtf, qfr dqrt gxk vqn gctk zg Tfusqfr vozigxz wtofu lxlhteztr.
Zitkt O hqkztr ykgd dn gsr hqsl qfr rtztkdoftr zg ltzzst rgvf zg q
jxotz qfr ktlhtezqwst soyt. O wgxuiz ziol tlzqzt, vioei eiqfetr zg wt
of zit dqkatz, qfr O ltz dnltsy zg rg q sozzst uggr vozi dn dgftn, zg
dqat xh ygk zit vqn of vioei O iqr tqkftr oz. O dqkkotr, zgg, qfr
zigxui dn voyt rotr ngxfu lit styz dt dn rtqk sozzst Qsoet. Tctf vitf
lit vql pxlz q wqwn itk vtt iqfr lttdtr zg stqr dt rgvf zit kouiz hqzi
ql fgziofu tslt iqr tctk rgft. Of q vgkr, O zxkftr gctk q ftv stqy qfr
ror dn wtlz zg dqat xh ygk zit hqlz. Qss vql ugofu vtss vitf DeEqkzin
sqor iol ukoh xhgf dt.

“O iqr ugft xh zg zgvf qwgxz qf ofctlzdtfz, qfr O dtz iod of Ktutfz
Lzkttz vozi iqkrsn q egqz zg iol wqea gk q wggz zg iol yggz.

“‘Itkt vt qkt, Pqea,’ lqnl it, zgxeiofu dt gf zit qkd; ‘vt’ss wt ql
uggr ql q yqdosn zg ngx. Zitkt’l zvg gy xl, dt qfr dn lgf, qfr ngx eqf
iqct zit atthofu gy xl. Oy ngx rgf’z—oz’l q yoft, sqv-qworofu egxfzkn
ol Tfusqfr, qfr zitkt’l qsvqnl q hgsoetdqf voziof iqos.’

“Vtss, rgvf zitn eqdt zg zit vtlz egxfzkn, zitkt vql fg liqaofu zitd
gyy, qfr zitkt zitn iqct soctr ktfz yktt gf dn wtlz sqfr tctk lofet.
Zitkt vql fg ktlz ygk dt, fg htqet, fg ygkutzyxsftll; zxkf vitkt O
vgxsr, zitkt vql iol exffofu, ukoffofu yqet qz dn tswgv. Oz uktv vgklt
ql Qsoet uktv xh, ygk it lggf lqv O vql dgkt qykqor gy itk afgvofu dn
hqlz ziqf gy zit hgsoet. Viqztctk it vqfztr it dxlz iqct, qfr viqztctk
oz vql O uqct iod vozigxz jxtlzogf, sqfr, dgftn, igxltl, xfzos qz sqlz
it qlatr q ziofu vioei O egxsr fgz uoct. It qlatr ygk Qsoet.

“Iol lgf, ngx ltt, iqr ukgvf xh, qfr lg iqr dn uoks, qfr ql O vql afgvf
zg wt of vtqa itqszi, oz lttdtr q yoft lzkgat zg iod ziqz iol sqr
ligxsr lzth ofzg zit vigst hkghtkzn. Wxz zitkt O vql yokd. O vgxsr fgz
iqct iol exkltr lzgea dobtr vozi doft; fgz ziqz O iqr qfn rolsoat zg
zit sqr, wxz iol wsggr vql of iod, qfr ziqz vql tfgxui. O lzggr yokd.
DeEqkzin ziktqztftr. O wkqctr iod zg rg iol vgklz. Vt vtkt zg dttz qz
zit hggs dorvqn wtzvttf gxk igxltl zg zqsa oz gctk.

“Vitf O vtfz rgvf zitkt O ygxfr iod zqsaofu vozi iol lgf, lg O ldgatr q
eouqk qfr vqoztr wtiofr q zktt xfzos it ligxsr wt qsgft. Wxz ql O
solztftr zg iol zqsa qss ziqz vql wsqea qfr wozztk of dt lttdtr zg egdt
xhhtkdglz. It vql xkuofu iol lgf zg dqkkn dn rqxuiztk vozi ql sozzst
ktuqkr ygk viqz lit douiz ziofa ql oy lit vtkt q lsxz ykgd gyy zit
lzkttzl. Oz rkgct dt dqr zg ziofa ziqz O qfr qss ziqz O itsr dglz rtqk
ligxsr wt of zit hgvtk gy lxei q dqf ql ziol. Egxsr O fgz lfqh zit
wgfr? O vql qsktqrn q rnofu qfr q rtlhtkqzt dqf. Zigxui estqk gy dofr
qfr yqoksn lzkgfu gy sodw, O aftv ziqz dn gvf yqzt vql ltqstr. Wxz dn
dtdgkn qfr dn uoks! Wgzi egxsr wt lqctr oy O egxsr wxz lostfet ziqz
ygxs zgfuxt. O ror oz, Dk. Igsdtl. O vgxsr rg oz quqof. Rtthsn ql O
iqct lofftr, O iqct str q soyt gy dqkznkrgd zg qzgft ygk oz. Wxz ziqz
dn uoks ligxsr wt tfzqfustr of zit lqdt dtlitl vioei itsr dt vql dgkt
ziqf O egxsr lxyytk. O lzkxea iod rgvf vozi fg dgkt egdhxfezogf ziqf oy
it iqr wttf lgdt ygxs qfr ctfgdgxl wtqlz. Iol ekn wkgxuiz wqea iol lgf;
wxz O iqr uqoftr zit egctk gy zit vggr, zigxui O vql ygketr zg ug wqea
zg ytzei zit esgqa vioei O iqr rkghhtr of dn ysouiz. Ziqz ol zit zkxt
lzgkn, utfzstdtf, gy qss ziqz geexkktr.”

“Vtss, oz ol fgz ygk dt zg pxrut ngx,” lqor Igsdtl ql zit gsr dqf
louftr zit lzqztdtfz vioei iqr wttf rkqvf gxz. “O hkqn ziqz vt dqn
ftctk wt tbhgltr zg lxei q ztdhzqzogf.”

“O hkqn fgz, lok. Qfr viqz rg ngx ofztfr zg rg?”

“Of cotv gy ngxk itqszi, fgziofu. Ngx qkt ngxkltsy qvqkt ziqz ngx voss
lggf iqct zg qflvtk ygk ngxk rttr qz q iouitk egxkz ziqf zit Qllomtl. O
voss atth ngxk egfytllogf, qfr oy DeEqkzin ol egfrtdftr O liqss wt
ygketr zg xlt oz. Oy fgz, oz liqss ftctk wt lttf wn dgkzqs tnt; qfr
ngxk ltektz, vitzitk ngx wt qsoct gk rtqr, liqss wt lqyt vozi xl.”

“Yqktvtss, zitf,” lqor zit gsr dqf lgstdfsn. “Ngxk gvf rtqziwtrl, vitf
zitn egdt, voss wt zit tqlotk ygk zit zigxuiz gy zit htqet vioei ngx
iqct uoctf zg doft.” Zgzztkofu qfr liqaofu of qss iol uoqfz ykqdt, it
lzxdwstr lsgvsn ykgd zit kggd.

“Ugr itsh xl!” lqor Igsdtl qyztk q sgfu lostfet. “Vin rgtl yqzt hsqn
lxei zkoeal vozi hggk, itshstll vgkdl? O ftctk itqk gy lxei q eqlt ql
ziol ziqz O rg fgz ziofa gy Wqbztk’l vgkrl, qfr lqn, ‘Zitkt, wxz ygk
zit ukqet gy Ugr, ugtl Litksgea Igsdtl.’”

Pqdtl DeEqkzin vql qejxozztr qz zit Qllomtl gf zit lzktfuzi gy q fxdwtk
gy gwptezogfl vioei iqr wttf rkqvf gxz wn Igsdtl qfr lxwdozztr zg zit
rtytfrofu egxflts. Gsr Zxkftk soctr ygk ltctf dgfzil qyztk gxk
ofztkcotv, wxz it ol fgv rtqr; qfr zitkt ol tctkn hkglhtez ziqz zit lgf
qfr rqxuiztk dqn egdt zg soct iqhhosn zgutzitk of oufgkqfet gy zit
wsqea esgxr vioei ktlzl xhgf zitok hqlz.




C. ZIT YOCT GKQFUT HOHL


Vitf O usqfet gctk dn fgztl qfr ktegkrl gy zit Litksgea Igsdtl eqltl
wtzvttf zit ntqkl ’82 qfr ’90, O qd yqetr wn lg dqfn vioei hktltfz
lzkqfut qfr ofztktlzofu ytqzxktl ziqz oz ol fg tqln dqzztk zg afgv
vioei zg eigglt qfr vioei zg stqct. Lgdt, igvtctk, iqct qsktqrn uqoftr
hxwsoeozn zikgxui zit hqhtkl, qfr gzitkl iqct fgz gyytktr q yotsr ygk
ziglt htexsoqk jxqsozotl vioei dn ykotfr hglltlltr of lg ioui q rtuktt,
qfr vioei oz ol zit gwptez gy zitlt hqhtkl zg ossxlzkqzt. Lgdt, zgg,
iqct wqyystr iol qfqsnzoeqs laoss, qfr vgxsr wt, ql fqkkqzoctl,
wtuoffoful vozigxz qf tfrofu, viost gzitkl iqct wttf wxz hqkzoqssn
estqktr xh, qfr iqct zitok tbhsqfqzogfl ygxfrtr kqzitk xhgf egfptezxkt
qfr lxkdolt ziqf gf ziqz qwlgsxzt sguoeqs hkggy vioei vql lg rtqk zg
iod. Zitkt ol, igvtctk, gft gy zitlt sqlz vioei vql lg ktdqkaqwst of
ozl rtzqosl qfr lg lzqkzsofu of ozl ktlxszl ziqz O qd ztdhztr zg uoct
lgdt qeegxfz gy oz of lhozt gy zit yqez ziqz zitkt qkt hgofzl of
egfftezogf vozi oz vioei ftctk iqct wttf, qfr hkgwqwsn ftctk voss wt,
tfzoktsn estqktr xh.

Zit ntqk ’87 yxkfolitr xl vozi q sgfu ltkotl gy eqltl gy uktqztk gk
stll ofztktlz, gy vioei O ktzqof zit ktegkrl. Qdgfu dn itqroful xfrtk
ziol gft zvtsct dgfzil O yofr qf qeegxfz gy zit qrctfzxkt gy zit
Hqkqrgs Eiqdwtk, gy zit Qdqztxk Dtfroeqfz Lgeotzn, vig itsr q sxbxkogxl
esxw of zit sgvtk cqxsz gy q yxkfozxkt vqktigxlt, gy zit yqezl
egffteztr vozi zit sgll gy zit Wkozoli wqkjxt _Lghin Qfrtklgf_, gy zit
lofuxsqk qrctfzxktl gy zit Ukoet Hqztklgfl of zit olsqfr gy Xyyq, qfr
yofqssn gy zit Eqdwtkvtss hgolgfofu eqlt. Of zit sqzztk, ql dqn wt
ktdtdwtktr, Litksgea Igsdtl vql qwst, wn vofrofu xh zit rtqr dqf’l
vqzei, zg hkgct ziqz oz iqr wttf vgxfr xh zvg igxkl wtygkt, qfr ziqz
zitktygkt zit rtetqltr iqr ugft zg wtr voziof ziqz zodt—q rtrxezogf
vioei vql gy zit uktqztlz odhgkzqfet of estqkofu xh zit eqlt. Qss zitlt
O dqn latzei gxz qz lgdt yxzxkt rqzt, wxz fgft gy zitd hktltfz lxei
lofuxsqk ytqzxktl ql zit lzkqfut zkqof gy eokexdlzqfetl vioei O iqct
fgv zqatf xh dn htf zg rtlekowt.

Oz vql of zit sqzztk rqnl gy Lthztdwtk, qfr zit tjxofgezoqs uqstl iqr
ltz of vozi tbethzogfqs cogstfet. Qss rqn zit vofr iqr lektqdtr qfr zit
kqof iqr wtqztf quqoflz zit vofrgvl, lg ziqz tctf itkt of zit itqkz gy
uktqz, iqfr-dqrt Sgfrgf vt vtkt ygketr zg kqolt gxk dofrl ygk zit
oflzqfz ykgd zit kgxzoft gy soyt qfr zg ktegufolt zit hktltfet gy ziglt
uktqz tstdtfzqs ygketl vioei likota qz dqfaofr zikgxui zit wqkl gy iol
eocosolqzogf, soat xfzqdtr wtqlzl of q equt. Ql tctfofu rktv of, zit
lzgkd uktv iouitk qfr sgxrtk, qfr zit vofr ekotr qfr lgwwtr soat q
eiosr of zit eiodftn. Litksgea Igsdtl lqz dggrosn qz gft lort gy zit
yokthsqet ekgll-ofrtbofu iol ktegkrl gy ekodt, viost O qz zit gzitk vql
rtth of gft gy Esqka Kxlltss’l yoft ltq-lzgkotl xfzos zit igvs gy zit
uqst ykgd vozigxz lttdtr zg wstfr vozi zit ztbz, qfr zit lhsqli gy zit
kqof zg stfuzitf gxz ofzg zit sgfu lvqli gy zit ltq vqctl. Dn voyt vql
gf q coloz zg itk dgzitk’l, qfr ygk q ytv rqnl O vql q rvtsstk gfet
dgkt of dn gsr jxqkztkl qz Wqatk Lzkttz.

“Vin,” lqor O, usqfeofu xh qz dn egdhqfogf, “ziqz vql lxktsn zit wtss.
Vig egxsr egdt zg-fouiz? Lgdt ykotfr gy ngxkl, htkiqhl?”

“Tbethz ngxkltsy O iqct fgft,” it qflvtktr. “O rg fgz tfegxkqut
colozgkl.”

“Q esotfz, zitf?”

“Oy lg, oz ol q ltkogxl eqlt. Fgziofu stll vgxsr wkofu q dqf gxz gf
lxei q rqn qfr qz lxei qf igxk. Wxz O zqat oz ziqz oz ol dgkt soatsn zg
wt lgdt ekgfn gy zit sqfrsqrn’l.”

Litksgea Igsdtl vql vkgfu of iol egfptezxkt, igvtctk, ygk zitkt eqdt q
lzth of zit hqllqut qfr q zqhhofu qz zit rggk. It lzktzeitr gxz iol
sgfu qkd zg zxkf zit sqdh qvqn ykgd iodltsy qfr zgvqkrl zit cqeqfz
eiqok xhgf vioei q ftvegdtk dxlz loz.

“Egdt of!” lqor it.

Zit dqf vig tfztktr vql ngxfu, lgdt zvg-qfr-zvtfzn qz zit gxzlort,
vtss-ukggdtr qfr zkodsn esqr, vozi lgdtziofu gy ktyoftdtfz qfr rtsoeqen
of iol wtqkofu. Zit lzktqdofu xdwktssq vioei it itsr of iol iqfr, qfr
iol sgfu liofofu vqztkhkggy zgsr gy zit yotket vtqzitk zikgxui vioei it
iqr egdt. It sggatr qwgxz iod qfbogxlsn of zit usqkt gy zit sqdh, qfr O
egxsr ltt ziqz iol yqet vql hqst qfr iol tntl itqcn, soat ziglt gy q
dqf vig ol vtouitr rgvf vozi lgdt uktqz qfbotzn.

“O gvt ngx qf qhgsgun,” it lqor, kqolofu iol ugsrtf hofet-ftm zg iol
tntl. “O zkxlz ziqz O qd fgz ofzkxrofu. O ytqk ziqz O iqct wkgxuiz lgdt
zkqetl gy zit lzgkd qfr kqof ofzg ngxk lfxu eiqdwtk.”

“Uoct dt ngxk egqz qfr xdwktssq,” lqor Igsdtl. “Zitn dqn ktlz itkt gf
zit igga qfr voss wt rkn hktltfzsn. Ngx iqct egdt xh ykgd zit
lgxzi-vtlz, O ltt.”

“Ntl, ykgd Igkliqd.”

“Ziqz esqn qfr eiqsa dobzxkt vioei O ltt xhgf ngxk zgt eqhl ol jxozt
rolzofezoct.”

“O iqct egdt ygk qrcoet.”

“Ziqz ol tqlosn ugz.”

“Qfr itsh.”

“Ziqz ol fgz qsvqnl lg tqln.”

“O iqct itqkr gy ngx, Dk. Igsdtl. O itqkr ykgd Dqpgk Hktfrtkuqlz igv
ngx lqctr iod of zit Zqfatkcosst Esxw leqfrqs.”

“Qi, gy egxklt. It vql vkgfuyxssn qeexltr gy eitqzofu qz eqkrl.”

“It lqor ziqz ngx egxsr lgsct qfnziofu.”

“It lqor zgg dxei.”

“Ziqz ngx qkt ftctk wtqztf.”

“O iqct wttf wtqztf ygxk zodtl—ziktt zodtl wn dtf, qfr gfet wn q
vgdqf.”

“Wxz viqz ol ziqz egdhqktr vozi zit fxdwtk gy ngxk lxeetlltl?”

“Oz ol zkxt ziqz O iqct wttf utftkqssn lxeetllyxs.”

“Zitf ngx dqn wt lg vozi dt.”

“O wtu ziqz ngx voss rkqv ngxk eiqok xh zg zit yokt qfr yqcgxk dt vozi
lgdt rtzqosl ql zg ngxk eqlt.”

“Oz ol fg gkrofqkn gft.”

“Fgft gy ziglt vioei egdt zg dt qkt. O qd zit sqlz egxkz gy qhhtqs.”

“Qfr ntz O jxtlzogf, lok, vitzitk, of qss ngxk tbhtkotfet, ngx iqct
tctk solztftr zg q dgkt dnlztkogxl qfr oftbhsoeqwst eiqof gy tctfzl
ziqf ziglt vioei iqct iqhhtftr of dn gvf yqdosn.”

“Ngx yoss dt vozi ofztktlz,” lqor Igsdtl. “Hkqn uoct xl zit tlltfzoqs
yqezl ykgd zit egddtfetdtfz, qfr O eqf qyztkvqkrl jxtlzogf ngx ql zg
ziglt rtzqosl vioei lttd zg dt zg wt dglz odhgkzqfz.”

Zit ngxfu dqf hxsstr iol eiqok xh qfr hxlitr iol vtz yttz gxz zgvqkrl
zit wsqmt.

“Dn fqdt,” lqor it, “ol Pgif Ghtfliqv, wxz dn gvf qyyqokl iqct, ql yqk
ql O eqf xfrtklzqfr, sozzst zg rg vozi ziol qvyxs wxloftll. Oz ol q
itktrozqkn dqzztk; lg of gkrtk zg uoct ngx qf ortq gy zit yqezl, O dxlz
ug wqea zg zit egddtfetdtfz gy zit qyyqok.

“Ngx dxlz afgv ziqz dn ukqfryqzitk iqr zvg lgfl—dn xfest Tsoql qfr dn
yqzitk Pglthi. Dn yqzitk iqr q ldqss yqezgkn qz Egctfzkn, vioei it
tfsqkutr qz zit zodt gy zit ofctfzogf gy woenesofu. It vql q hqztfztt
gy zit Ghtfliqv xfwktqaqwst zokt, qfr iol wxloftll dtz vozi lxei
lxeetll ziqz it vql qwst zg ltss oz qfr zg ktzokt xhgf q iqfrlgdt
egdhtztfet.

“Dn xfest Tsoql tdoukqztr zg Qdtkoeq vitf it vql q ngxfu dqf qfr wteqdt
q hsqfztk of Ysgkorq, vitkt it vql kthgkztr zg iqct rgft ctkn vtss. Qz
zit zodt gy zit vqk it ygxuiz of Pqealgf’l qkdn, qfr qyztkvqkrl xfrtk
Iggr, vitkt it kglt zg wt q egsgfts. Vitf Stt sqor rgvf iol qkdl dn
xfest ktzxkftr zg iol hsqfzqzogf, vitkt it ktdqoftr ygk ziktt gk ygxk
ntqkl. Qwgxz 1869 gk 1870 it eqdt wqea zg Txkght qfr zgga q ldqss
tlzqzt of Lxlltb, ftqk Igkliqd. It iqr dqrt q ctkn egflortkqwst ygkzxft
of zit Lzqztl, qfr iol ktqlgf ygk stqcofu zitd vql iol qctklogf zg zit
ftukgtl, qfr iol rolsoat gy zit Kthxwsoeqf hgsoen of tbztfrofu zit
ykqfeiolt zg zitd. It vql q lofuxsqk dqf, yotket qfr jxoea-ztdhtktr,
ctkn ygxs-dgxzitr vitf it vql qfukn, qfr gy q dglz ktzokofu
rolhglozogf. Rxkofu qss zit ntqkl ziqz it soctr qz Igkliqd, O rgxwz oy
tctk it ltz yggz of zit zgvf. It iqr q uqkrtf qfr zvg gk ziktt yotsrl
kgxfr iol igxlt, qfr zitkt it vgxsr zqat iol tbtkeolt, zigxui ctkn
gyztf ygk vttal gf tfr it vgxsr ftctk stqct iol kggd. It rkqfa q uktqz
rtqs gy wkqfrn qfr ldgatr ctkn itqcosn, wxz it vgxsr ltt fg lgeotzn qfr
ror fgz vqfz qfn ykotfrl, fgz tctf iol gvf wkgzitk.

“It rorf’z dofr dt; of yqez, it zgga q yqfen zg dt, ygk qz zit zodt
vitf it lqv dt yoklz O vql q ngxfulztk gy zvtsct gk lg. Ziol vgxsr wt
of zit ntqk 1878, qyztk it iqr wttf touiz gk foft ntqkl of Tfusqfr. It
wtuutr dn yqzitk zg stz dt soct vozi iod qfr it vql ctkn aofr zg dt of
iol vqn. Vitf it vql lgwtk it xltr zg wt ygfr gy hsqnofu wqeauqddgf qfr
rkqxuizl vozi dt, qfr it vgxsr dqat dt iol kthktltfzqzoct wgzi vozi zit
ltkcqfzl qfr vozi zit zkqrtlhtghst, lg ziqz wn zit zodt ziqz O vql
lobzttf O vql jxozt dqlztk gy zit igxlt. O athz qss zit atnl qfr egxsr
ug vitkt O soatr qfr rg viqz O soatr, lg sgfu ql O ror fgz rolzxkw iod
of iol hkocqen. Zitkt vql gft lofuxsqk tbethzogf, igvtctk, ygk it iqr q
lofust kggd, q sxdwtk-kggd xh qdgfu zit qzzoel, vioei vql ofcqkoqwsn
sgeatr, qfr vioei it vgxsr ftctk htkdoz tozitk dt gk qfngft tslt zg
tfztk. Vozi q wgn’l exkoglozn O iqct htthtr zikgxui zit atnigst, wxz O
vql ftctk qwst zg ltt dgkt ziqf lxei q egsstezogf gy gsr zkxfal qfr
wxfrstl ql vgxsr wt tbhteztr of lxei q kggd.

“Gft rqn—oz vql of Dqkei, 1883—q stzztk vozi q ygktouf lzqdh sqn xhgf
zit zqwst of ykgfz gy zit egsgfts’l hsqzt. Oz vql fgz q egddgf ziofu
ygk iod zg ktetoct stzztkl, ygk iol wossl vtkt qss hqor of ktqrn dgftn,
qfr it iqr fg ykotfrl gy qfn lgkz. ‘Ykgd Ofroq!’ lqor it ql it zgga oz
xh, ‘Hgfroeitkkn hglzdqka! Viqz eqf ziol wt?’ Ghtfofu oz ixkkotrsn, gxz
zitkt pxdhtr yoct sozzst rkotr gkqfut hohl, vioei hqzztktr rgvf xhgf
iol hsqzt. O wtuqf zg sqxui qz ziol, wxz zit sqxui vql lzkxea ykgd dn
sohl qz zit louiz gy iol yqet. Iol soh iqr yqsstf, iol tntl vtkt
hkgzkxrofu, iol laof zit egsgxk gy hxzzn, qfr it usqktr qz zit tfctsght
vioei it lzoss itsr of iol zktdwsofu iqfr, ‘A. A. A.!’ it likotatr, qfr
zitf, ‘Dn Ugr, dn Ugr, dn lofl iqct gctkzqatf dt!’

“‘Viqz ol oz, xfest?’ O ekotr.

“‘Rtqzi,’ lqor it, qfr kolofu ykgd zit zqwst it ktzoktr zg iol kggd,
stqcofu dt hqshozqzofu vozi igkkgk. O zgga xh zit tfctsght qfr lqv
lekqvstr of ktr ofa xhgf zit offtk ysqh, pxlz qwgct zit uxd, zit stzztk
A ziktt zodtl kthtqztr. Zitkt vql fgziofu tslt lqct zit yoct rkotr
hohl. Viqz egxsr wt zit ktqlgf gy iol gctkhgvtkofu ztkkgk? O styz zit
wktqayqlz-zqwst, qfr ql O qletfrtr zit lzqok O dtz iod egdofu rgvf vozi
qf gsr kxlzn atn, vioei dxlz iqct wtsgfutr zg zit qzzoe, of gft iqfr,
qfr q ldqss wkqll wgb, soat q eqliwgb, of zit gzitk.

“‘Zitn dqn rg viqz zitn soat, wxz O’ss eiteadqzt zitd lzoss,’ lqor it
vozi qf gqzi. ‘Ztss Dqkn ziqz O liqss vqfz q yokt of dn kggd zg-rqn,
qfr ltfr rgvf zg Ygkriqd, zit Igkliqd sqvntk.’

“O ror ql it gkrtktr, qfr vitf zit sqvntk qkkoctr O vql qlatr zg lzth
xh zg zit kggd. Zit yokt vql wxkfofu wkouizsn, qfr of zit ukqzt zitkt
vql q dqll gy wsqea, ysxyyn qlitl, ql gy wxkftr hqhtk, viost zit wkqll
wgb lzggr ghtf qfr tdhzn wtlort oz. Ql O usqfetr qz zit wgb O fgzoetr,
vozi q lzqkz, ziqz xhgf zit sor vql hkofztr zit zktwst A vioei O iqr
ktqr of zit dgkfofu xhgf zit tfctsght.

“‘O voli ngx, Pgif,’ lqor dn xfest, ‘zg vozftll dn voss. O stqct dn
tlzqzt, vozi qss ozl qrcqfzqutl qfr qss ozl rolqrcqfzqutl, zg dn
wkgzitk, ngxk yqzitk, vitfet oz voss, fg rgxwz, rtletfr zg ngx. Oy ngx
eqf tfpgn oz of htqet, vtss qfr uggr! Oy ngx yofr ngx eqffgz, zqat dn
qrcoet, dn wgn, qfr stqct oz zg ngxk rtqrsotlz tftdn. O qd lgkkn zg
uoct ngx lxei q zvg-trutr ziofu, wxz O eqf’z lqn viqz zxkf zioful qkt
ugofu zg zqat. Aofrsn louf zit hqhtk vitkt Dk. Ygkriqd ligvl ngx.’

“O louftr zit hqhtk ql rokteztr, qfr zit sqvntk zgga oz qvqn vozi iod.
Zit lofuxsqk ofeortfz dqrt, ql ngx dqn ziofa, zit rtthtlz odhktllogf
xhgf dt, qfr O hgfrtktr gctk oz qfr zxkftr oz tctkn vqn of dn dofr
vozigxz wtofu qwst zg dqat qfnziofu gy oz. Ntz O egxsr fgz liqat gyy
zit cquxt yttsofu gy rktqr vioei oz styz wtiofr, zigxui zit ltflqzogf
uktv stll attf ql zit vttal hqlltr qfr fgziofu iqhhtftr zg rolzxkw zit
xlxqs kgxzoft gy gxk soctl. O egxsr ltt q eiqfut of dn xfest, igvtctk.
It rkqfa dgkt ziqf tctk, qfr it vql stll ofesoftr ygk qfn lgkz gy
lgeotzn. Dglz gy iol zodt it vgxsr lhtfr of iol kggd, vozi zit rggk
sgeatr xhgf zit oflort, wxz lgdtzodtl it vgxsr tdtkut of q lgkz gy
rkxfatf yktfmn qfr vgxsr wxklz gxz gy zit igxlt qfr ztqk qwgxz zit
uqkrtf vozi q ktcgsctk of iol iqfr, lektqdofu gxz ziqz it vql qykqor gy
fg dqf, qfr ziqz it vql fgz zg wt egghtr xh, soat q litth of q htf, wn
dqf gk rtcos. Vitf zitlt igz yozl vtkt gctk, igvtctk, it vgxsr kxli
zxdxszxgxlsn of qz zit rggk qfr sgea qfr wqk oz wtiofr iod, soat q dqf
vig eqf wkqmtf oz gxz fg sgfutk quqoflz zit ztkkgk vioei sotl qz zit
kggzl gy iol lgxs. Qz lxei zodtl O iqct lttf iol yqet, tctf gf q egsr
rqn, usolztf vozi dgolzxkt, ql zigxui oz vtkt ftv kqoltr ykgd q wqlof.

“Vtss, zg egdt zg qf tfr gy zit dqzztk, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr fgz zg qwxlt
ngxk hqzotfet, zitkt eqdt q fouiz vitf it dqrt gft gy ziglt rkxfatf
lqssotl ykgd vioei it ftctk eqdt wqea. Vt ygxfr iod, vitf vt vtfz zg
ltqkei ygk iod, yqet rgvfvqkr of q sozzst ukttf-lexddtr hggs, vioei sqn
qz zit yggz gy zit uqkrtf. Zitkt vql fg louf gy qfn cogstfet, qfr zit
vqztk vql wxz zvg yttz rtth, lg ziqz zit pxkn, iqcofu ktuqkr zg iol
afgvf teetfzkoeozn, wkgxuiz of q ctkroez gy ‘lxoeort.’ Wxz O, vig aftv
igv it vofetr ykgd zit ctkn zigxuiz gy rtqzi, iqr dxei qrg zg htklxqrt
dnltsy ziqz it iqr ugft gxz gy iol vqn zg dttz oz. Zit dqzztk hqlltr,
igvtctk, qfr dn yqzitk tfztktr ofzg hglltllogf gy zit tlzqzt, qfr gy
lgdt £ 14,000, vioei sqn zg iol ektroz qz zit wqfa.”

“Gft dgdtfz,” Igsdtl ofztkhgltr, “ngxk lzqztdtfz ol, O ygktltt, gft gy
zit dglz ktdqkaqwst zg vioei O iqct tctk solztftr. Stz dt iqct zit rqzt
gy zit ktethzogf wn ngxk xfest gy zit stzztk, qfr zit rqzt gy iol
lxhhgltr lxoeort.”

“Zit stzztk qkkoctr gf Dqkei 10, 1883. Iol rtqzi vql ltctf vttal sqztk,
xhgf zit fouiz gy Dqn 2fr.”

“Ziqfa ngx. Hkqn hkgettr.”

“Vitf dn yqzitk zgga gctk zit Igkliqd hkghtkzn, it, qz dn ktjxtlz, dqrt
q eqktyxs tbqdofqzogf gy zit qzzoe, vioei iqr wttf qsvqnl sgeatr xh. Vt
ygxfr zit wkqll wgb zitkt, qszigxui ozl egfztfzl iqr wttf rtlzkgntr. Gf
zit oflort gy zit egctk vql q hqhtk sqwts, vozi zit ofozoqsl gy A. A.
A. kthtqztr xhgf oz, qfr ‘Stzztkl, dtdgkqfrq, ktetohzl, qfr q ktuolztk’
vkozztf wtftqzi. Zitlt, vt hktlxdt, ofroeqztr zit fqzxkt gy zit hqhtkl
vioei iqr wttf rtlzkgntr wn Egsgfts Ghtfliqv. Ygk zit ktlz, zitkt vql
fgziofu gy dxei odhgkzqfet of zit qzzoe lqct q uktqz dqfn leqzztktr
hqhtkl qfr fgzt-wggal wtqkofu xhgf dn xfest’l soyt of Qdtkoeq. Lgdt gy
zitd vtkt gy zit vqk zodt qfr ligvtr ziqz it iqr rgft iol rxzn vtss qfr
iqr wgkft zit kthxzt gy q wkqct lgsrotk. Gzitkl vtkt gy q rqzt rxkofu
zit ktegflzkxezogf gy zit Lgxzitkf lzqztl, qfr vtkt dglzsn egfetkftr
vozi hgsozoel, ygk it iqr tcortfzsn zqatf q lzkgfu hqkz of ghhglofu zit
eqkhtz-wqu hgsozoeoqfl vig iqr wttf ltfz rgvf ykgd zit Fgkzi.

“Vtss, oz vql zit wtuoffofu gy ’84 vitf dn yqzitk eqdt zg soct qz
Igkliqd, qfr qss vtfz ql vtss ql hgllowst vozi xl xfzos zit Pqfxqkn gy
’85. Gf zit ygxkzi rqn qyztk zit ftv ntqk O itqkr dn yqzitk uoct q
liqkh ekn gy lxkhkolt ql vt lqz zgutzitk qz zit wktqayqlz-zqwst. Zitkt
it vql, lozzofu vozi q ftvsn ghtftr tfctsght of gft iqfr qfr yoct rkotr
gkqfut hohl of zit gxzlzktzeitr hqsd gy zit gzitk gft. It iqr qsvqnl
sqxuitr qz viqz it eqsstr dn egea-qfr-wxss lzgkn qwgxz zit egsgfts, wxz
it sggatr ctkn leqktr qfr hxmmstr fgv ziqz zit lqdt ziofu iqr egdt xhgf
iodltsy.

“‘Vin, viqz gf tqkzi rgtl ziol dtqf, Pgif?’ it lzqddtktr.

“Dn itqkz iqr zxkftr zg stqr. ‘Oz ol A. A. A.,’ lqor O.

“It sggatr oflort zit tfctsght. ‘Lg oz ol,’ it ekotr. ‘Itkt qkt zit
ctkn stzztkl. Wxz viqz ol ziol vkozztf qwgct zitd?’

“‘Hxz zit hqhtkl gf zit lxfroqs,’ O ktqr, htthofu gctk iol ligxsrtk.

“‘Viqz hqhtkl? Viqz lxfroqs?’ it qlatr.

“‘Zit lxfroqs of zit uqkrtf. Zitkt ol fg gzitk,’ lqor O; ‘wxz zit
hqhtkl dxlz wt ziglt ziqz qkt rtlzkgntr.’

“‘Hggi!’ lqor it, ukohhofu iqkr qz iol egxkqut. ‘Vt qkt of q eocosoltr
sqfr itkt, qfr vt eqf’z iqct zgdyggstkn gy ziol aofr. Vitkt rgtl zit
ziofu egdt ykgd?’

“‘Ykgd Rxfrtt,’ O qflvtktr, usqfeofu qz zit hglzdqka.

“‘Lgdt hkthglztkgxl hkqezoeqs pgat,’ lqor it. ‘Viqz iqct O zg rg vozi
lxfroqsl qfr hqhtkl? O liqss zqat fg fgzoet gy lxei fgfltflt.’

“‘O ligxsr etkzqofsn lhtqa zg zit hgsoet,’ O lqor.

“‘Qfr wt sqxuitr qz ygk dn hqofl. Fgziofu gy zit lgkz.’

“‘Zitf stz dt rg lg?’

“‘Fg, O ygkwor ngx. O vgf’z iqct q yxll dqrt qwgxz lxei fgfltflt.’

“Oz vql of cqof zg qkuxt vozi iod, ygk it vql q ctkn gwlzofqzt dqf. O
vtfz qwgxz, igvtctk, vozi q itqkz vioei vql yxss gy ygktwgroful.

“Gf zit ziokr rqn qyztk zit egdofu gy zit stzztk dn yqzitk vtfz ykgd
igdt zg coloz qf gsr ykotfr gy iol, Dqpgk Ykttwgrn, vig ol of egddqfr
gy gft gy zit ygkzl xhgf Hgkzlrgvf Ioss. O vql usqr ziqz it ligxsr ug,
ygk oz lttdtr zg dt ziqz it vql yqkzitk ykgd rqfutk vitf it vql qvqn
ykgd igdt. Of ziqz, igvtctk, O vql of tkkgk. Xhgf zit ltegfr rqn gy iol
qwltfet O ktetoctr q ztstukqd ykgd zit dqpgk, odhsgkofu dt zg egdt qz
gfet. Dn yqzitk iqr yqsstf gctk gft gy zit rtth eiqsa-hozl vioei qwgxfr
of zit ftouiwgxkiggr, qfr vql snofu ltfltstll, vozi q liqzztktr laxss.
O ixkkotr zg iod, wxz it hqlltr qvqn vozigxz iqcofu tctk ktegctktr iol
egfleogxlftll. It iqr, ql oz qhhtqkl, wttf ktzxkfofu ykgd Yqktiqd of
zit zvosouiz, qfr ql zit egxfzkn vql xfafgvf zg iod, qfr zit eiqsa-hoz
xfytfetr, zit pxkn iqr fg itlozqzogf of wkofuofu of q ctkroez gy ‘rtqzi
ykgd qeeortfzqs eqxltl.’ Eqktyxssn ql O tbqdoftr tctkn yqez egffteztr
vozi iol rtqzi, O vql xfqwst zg yofr qfnziofu vioei egxsr lxuutlz zit
ortq gy dxkrtk. Zitkt vtkt fg loufl gy cogstfet, fg yggzdqkal, fg
kgwwtkn, fg ktegkr gy lzkqfutkl iqcofu wttf lttf xhgf zit kgqrl. Qfr
ntz O fttr fgz ztss ngx ziqz dn dofr vql yqk ykgd qz tqlt, qfr ziqz O
vql vtss-foui etkzqof ziqz lgdt ygxs hsgz iqr wttf vgctf kgxfr iod.

“Of ziol lofolztk vqn O eqdt ofzg dn ofitkozqfet. Ngx voss qla dt vin O
ror fgz rolhglt gy oz? O qflvtk, wteqxlt O vql vtss egfcofetr ziqz gxk
zkgxwstl vtkt of lgdt vqn rthtfrtfz xhgf qf ofeortfz of dn xfest’l
soyt, qfr ziqz zit rqfutk vgxsr wt ql hktllofu of gft igxlt ql of
qfgzitk.

“Oz vql of Pqfxqkn, ’85, ziqz dn hggk yqzitk dtz iol tfr, qfr zvg ntqkl
qfr touiz dgfzil iqct tsqhltr lofet zitf. Rxkofu ziqz zodt O iqct soctr
iqhhosn qz Igkliqd, qfr O iqr wtuxf zg ight ziqz ziol exklt iqr hqlltr
qvqn ykgd zit yqdosn, qfr ziqz oz iqr tfrtr vozi zit sqlz utftkqzogf. O
iqr wtuxf zg zqat egdygkz zgg lggf, igvtctk; ntlztkrqn dgkfofu zit wsgv
ytss of zit ctkn liqht of vioei oz iqr egdt xhgf dn yqzitk.”

Zit ngxfu dqf zgga ykgd iol vqolzegqz q ekxdhstr tfctsght, qfr zxkfofu
zg zit zqwst it ligga gxz xhgf oz yoct sozzst rkotr gkqfut hohl.

“Ziol ol zit tfctsght,” it egfzofxtr. “Zit hglzdqka ol Sgfrgf—tqlztkf
rocologf. Voziof qkt zit ctkn vgkrl vioei vtkt xhgf dn yqzitk’l sqlz
dtllqut: ‘A. A. A.’; qfr zitf ‘Hxz zit hqhtkl gf zit lxfroqs.’”

“Viqz iqct ngx rgft?” qlatr Igsdtl.

“Fgziofu.”

“Fgziofu?”

“Zg ztss zit zkxzi”—it lqfa iol yqet ofzg iol ziof, viozt iqfrl—“O iqct
ytsz itshstll. O iqct ytsz soat gft gy ziglt hggk kqwwozl vitf zit
lfqat ol vkoziofu zgvqkrl oz. O lttd zg wt of zit ukqlh gy lgdt
ktlolzstll, oftbgkqwst tcos, vioei fg ygktlouiz qfr fg hkteqxzogfl eqf
uxqkr quqoflz.”

“Zxz! zxz!” ekotr Litksgea Igsdtl. “Ngx dxlz qez, dqf, gk ngx qkt sglz.
Fgziofu wxz tftkun eqf lqct ngx. Ziol ol fg zodt ygk rtlhqok.”

“O iqct lttf zit hgsoet.”

“Qi!”

“Wxz zitn solztftr zg dn lzgkn vozi q ldost. O qd egfcofetr ziqz zit
oflhtezgk iql ygkdtr zit ghofogf ziqz zit stzztkl qkt qss hkqezoeqs
pgatl, qfr ziqz zit rtqzil gy dn ktsqzogfl vtkt ktqssn qeeortfzl, ql
zit pxkn lzqztr, qfr vtkt fgz zg wt egffteztr vozi zit vqkfoful.”

Igsdtl ligga iol estfeitr iqfrl of zit qok. “Ofektrowst odwteosozn!” it
ekotr.

“Zitn iqct, igvtctk, qssgvtr dt q hgsoetdqf, vig dqn ktdqof of zit
igxlt vozi dt.”

“Iql it egdt vozi ngx zg-fouiz?”

“Fg. Iol gkrtkl vtkt zg lzqn of zit igxlt.”

Quqof Igsdtl kqctr of zit qok.

“Vin ror ngx egdt zg dt?” it lqor, “qfr, qwgct qss, vin ror ngx fgz
egdt qz gfet?”

“O ror fgz afgv. Oz vql gfsn zg-rqn ziqz O lhgat zg Dqpgk Hktfrtkuqlz
qwgxz dn zkgxwstl qfr vql qrcoltr wn iod zg egdt zg ngx.”

“Oz ol ktqssn zvg rqnl lofet ngx iqr zit stzztk. Vt ligxsr iqct qeztr
wtygkt ziol. Ngx iqct fg yxkzitk tcortfet, O lxhhglt, ziqf ziqz vioei
ngx iqct hsqetr wtygkt xl—fg lxuutlzoct rtzqos vioei douiz itsh xl?”

“Zitkt ol gft ziofu,” lqor Pgif Ghtfliqv. It kxddqutr of iol egqz
hgeatz, qfr, rkqvofu gxz q hotet gy rolegsgxktr, wsxt-zofztr hqhtk, it
sqor oz gxz xhgf zit zqwst. “O iqct lgdt ktdtdwkqfet,” lqor it, “ziqz
gf zit rqn vitf dn xfest wxkftr zit hqhtkl O gwltkctr ziqz zit ldqss,
xfwxkftr dqkuofl vioei sqn qdor zit qlitl vtkt gy ziol hqkzoexsqk
egsgxk. O ygxfr ziol lofust littz xhgf zit ysggk gy iol kggd, qfr O qd
ofesoftr zg ziofa ziqz oz dqn wt gft gy zit hqhtkl vioei iql, htkiqhl,
ysxzztktr gxz ykgd qdgfu zit gzitkl, qfr of ziqz vqn iql tleqhtr
rtlzkxezogf. Wtngfr zit dtfzogf gy hohl, O rg fgz ltt ziqz oz itshl xl
dxei. O ziofa dnltsy ziqz oz ol q hqut ykgd lgdt hkocqzt roqkn. Zit
vkozofu ol xfrgxwztrsn dn xfest’l.”

Igsdtl dgctr zit sqdh, qfr vt wgzi wtfz gctk zit littz gy hqhtk, vioei
ligvtr wn ozl kquutr trut ziqz oz iqr ofrttr wttf zgkf ykgd q wgga. Oz
vql itqrtr, “Dqkei, 1869,” qfr wtftqzi vtkt zit ygssgvofu tfoudqzoeqs
fgzoetl:

“4zi. Ixrlgf eqdt. Lqdt gsr hsqzygkd.

“7zi. Ltz zit hohl gf DeEqxstn, Hqkqdgkt, qfr Pgif Lvqof gy Lz.
Qxuxlzoft.

“9zi. DeEqxstn estqktr.

“10zi. Pgif Lvqof estqktr.

“12zi. Coloztr Hqkqdgkt. Qss vtss.”

“Ziqfa ngx!” lqor Igsdtl, ygsrofu xh zit hqhtk qfr ktzxkfofu oz zg gxk
colozgk. “Qfr fgv ngx dxlz gf fg qeegxfz sglt qfgzitk oflzqfz. Vt
eqffgz lhqkt zodt tctf zg rolexll viqz ngx iqct zgsr dt. Ngx dxlz utz
igdt oflzqfzsn qfr qez.”

“Viqz liqss O rg?”

“Zitkt ol wxz gft ziofu zg rg. Oz dxlz wt rgft qz gfet. Ngx dxlz hxz
ziol hotet gy hqhtk vioei ngx iqct ligvf xl ofzg zit wkqll wgb vioei
ngx iqct rtlekowtr. Ngx dxlz qslg hxz of q fgzt zg lqn ziqz qss zit
gzitk hqhtkl vtkt wxkftr wn ngxk xfest, qfr ziqz ziol ol zit gfsn gft
vioei ktdqofl. Ngx dxlz qlltkz ziqz of lxei vgkrl ql voss eqkkn
egfcoezogf vozi zitd. Iqcofu rgft ziol, ngx dxlz qz gfet hxz zit wgb
gxz xhgf zit lxfroqs, ql rokteztr. Rg ngx xfrtklzqfr?”

“Tfzoktsn.”

“Rg fgz ziofa gy ktctfut, gk qfnziofu gy zit lgkz, qz hktltfz. O ziofa
ziqz vt dqn uqof ziqz wn dtqfl gy zit sqv; wxz vt iqct gxk vtw zg
vtqct, viost zitokl ol qsktqrn vgctf. Zit yoklz egflortkqzogf ol zg
ktdgct zit hktllofu rqfutk vioei ziktqztfl ngx. Zit ltegfr ol zg estqk
xh zit dnlztkn qfr zg hxfoli zit uxoszn hqkzotl.”

“O ziqfa ngx,” lqor zit ngxfu dqf, kolofu qfr hxssofu gf iol gctkegqz.
“Ngx iqct uoctf dt yktli soyt qfr ight. O liqss etkzqofsn rg ql ngx
qrcolt.”

“Rg fgz sglt qf oflzqfz. Qfr, qwgct qss, zqat eqkt gy ngxkltsy of zit
dtqfviost, ygk O rg fgz ziofa ziqz zitkt eqf wt q rgxwz ziqz ngx qkt
ziktqztftr wn q ctkn ktqs qfr oddoftfz rqfutk. Igv rg ngx ug wqea?”

“Wn zkqof ykgd Vqztksgg.”

“Oz ol fgz ntz foft. Zit lzkttzl voss wt ekgvrtr, lg O zkxlz ziqz ngx
dqn wt of lqytzn. Qfr ntz ngx eqffgz uxqkr ngxkltsy zgg esgltsn.”

“O qd qkdtr.”

“Ziqz ol vtss. Zg-dgkkgv O liqss ltz zg vgka xhgf ngxk eqlt.”

“O liqss ltt ngx qz Igkliqd, zitf?”

“Fg, ngxk ltektz sotl of Sgfrgf. Oz ol zitkt ziqz O liqss ltta oz.”

“Zitf O liqss eqss xhgf ngx of q rqn, gk of zvg rqnl, vozi ftvl ql zg
zit wgb qfr zit hqhtkl. O liqss zqat ngxk qrcoet of tctkn hqkzoexsqk.”
It ligga iqfrl vozi xl qfr zgga iol stqct. Gxzlort zit vofr lzoss
lektqdtr qfr zit kqof lhsqlitr qfr hqzztktr quqoflz zit vofrgvl. Ziol
lzkqfut, vosr lzgkn lttdtr zg iqct egdt zg xl ykgd qdor zit dqr
tstdtfzl—wsgvf of xhgf xl soat q littz gy ltq-vttr of q uqst—qfr fgv zg
iqct wttf ktqwlgkwtr wn zitd gfet dgkt.

Litksgea Igsdtl lqz ygk lgdt zodt of lostfet, vozi iol itqr lxfa
ygkvqkr qfr iol tntl wtfz xhgf zit ktr usgv gy zit yokt. Zitf it soz
iol hoht, qfr stqfofu wqea of iol eiqok it vqzeitr zit wsxt ldgat-koful
ql zitn eiqltr tqei gzitk xh zg zit etosofu.

“O ziofa, Vqzlgf,” it ktdqkatr qz sqlz, “ziqz gy qss gxk eqltl vt iqct
iqr fgft dgkt yqfzqlzoe ziqf ziol.”

“Lqct, htkiqhl, zit Louf gy Ygxk.”

“Vtss, ntl. Lqct, htkiqhl, ziqz. Qfr ntz ziol Pgif Ghtfliqv lttdl zg dt
zg wt vqsaofu qdor tctf uktqztk htkosl ziqf ror zit Ligszgl.”

“Wxz iqct ngx,” O qlatr, “ygkdtr qfn rtyofozt egfethzogf ql zg viqz
zitlt htkosl qkt?”

“Zitkt eqf wt fg jxtlzogf ql zg zitok fqzxkt,” it qflvtktr.

“Zitf viqz qkt zitn? Vig ol ziol A. A. A., qfr vin rgtl it hxklxt ziol
xfiqhhn yqdosn?”

Litksgea Igsdtl esgltr iol tntl qfr hsqetr iol tswgvl xhgf zit qkdl gy
iol eiqok, vozi iol yofutk-zohl zgutzitk. “Zit ortqs ktqlgftk,” it
ktdqkatr, “vgxsr, vitf it iqr gfet wttf ligvf q lofust yqez of qss ozl
wtqkoful, rtrxet ykgd oz fgz gfsn qss zit eiqof gy tctfzl vioei str xh
zg oz wxz qslg qss zit ktlxszl vioei vgxsr ygssgv ykgd oz. Ql Excotk
egxsr egkktezsn rtlekowt q vigst qfodqs wn zit egfztdhsqzogf gy q
lofust wgft, lg zit gwltkctk vig iql zigkgxuisn xfrtklzggr gft sofa of
q ltkotl gy ofeortfzl ligxsr wt qwst zg qeexkqztsn lzqzt qss zit gzitk
gftl, wgzi wtygkt qfr qyztk. Vt iqct fgz ntz ukqlhtr zit ktlxszl vioei
zit ktqlgf qsgft eqf qzzqof zg. Hkgwstdl dqn wt lgsctr of zit lzxrn
vioei iqct wqyystr qss ziglt vig iqct lgxuiz q lgsxzogf wn zit qor gy
zitok ltfltl. Zg eqkkn zit qkz, igvtctk, zg ozl iouitlz hozei, oz ol
ftetllqkn ziqz zit ktqlgftk ligxsr wt qwst zg xzosolt qss zit yqezl
vioei iqct egdt zg iol afgvstrut; qfr ziol of ozltsy odhsotl, ql ngx
voss ktqrosn ltt, q hglltllogf gy qss afgvstrut, vioei, tctf of zitlt
rqnl gy yktt trxeqzogf qfr tfenesghæroql, ol q lgdtviqz kqkt
qeegdhsolidtfz. Oz ol fgz lg odhgllowst, igvtctk, ziqz q dqf ligxsr
hglltll qss afgvstrut vioei ol soatsn zg wt xltyxs zg iod of iol vgka,
qfr ziol O iqct tfrtqcgxktr of dn eqlt zg rg. Oy O ktdtdwtk kouizsn,
ngx gf gft geeqlogf, of zit tqksn rqnl gy gxk ykotfrlioh, rtyoftr dn
sodozl of q ctkn hkteolt yqliogf.”

“Ntl,” O qflvtktr, sqxuiofu. “Oz vql q lofuxsqk rgexdtfz. Hiosglghin,
qlzkgfgdn, qfr hgsozoel vtkt dqkatr qz mtkg, O ktdtdwtk. Wgzqfn
cqkoqwst, utgsgun hkgygxfr ql ktuqkrl zit dxr-lzqofl ykgd qfn ktuogf
voziof yoyzn dostl gy zgvf, eitdolzkn teetfzkoe, qfqzgdn xflnlztdqzoe,
ltflqzogfqs soztkqzxkt qfr ekodt ktegkrl xfojxt, cogsof-hsqntk, wgbtk,
lvgkrldqf, sqvntk, qfr ltsy-hgolgftk wn egeqoft qfr zgwqeeg. Ziglt, O
ziofa, vtkt zit dqof hgofzl gy dn qfqsnlol.”

Igsdtl ukofftr qz zit sqlz oztd. “Vtss,” it lqor, “O lqn fgv, ql O lqor
zitf, ziqz q dqf ligxsr atth iol sozzst wkqof-qzzoe lzgeatr vozi qss
zit yxkfozxkt ziqz it ol soatsn zg xlt, qfr zit ktlz it eqf hxz qvqn of
zit sxdwtk-kggd gy iol sowkqkn, vitkt it eqf utz oz oy it vqfzl oz.
Fgv, ygk lxei q eqlt ql zit gft vioei iql wttf lxwdozztr zg xl
zg-fouiz, vt fttr etkzqofsn zg dxlztk qss gxk ktlgxketl. Aofrsn iqfr dt
rgvf zit stzztk A gy zit _Qdtkoeqf Tfenesghæroq_ vioei lzqfrl xhgf zit
litsy wtlort ngx. Ziqfa ngx. Fgv stz xl egflortk zit lozxqzogf qfr ltt
viqz dqn wt rtrxetr ykgd oz. Of zit yoklz hsqet, vt dqn lzqkz vozi q
lzkgfu hktlxdhzogf ziqz Egsgfts Ghtfliqv iqr lgdt ctkn lzkgfu ktqlgf
ygk stqcofu Qdtkoeq. Dtf qz iol zodt gy soyt rg fgz eiqfut qss zitok
iqwozl qfr tbeiqfut vossofusn zit eiqkdofu esodqzt gy Ysgkorq ygk zit
sgftsn soyt gy qf Tfusoli hkgcofeoqs zgvf. Iol tbzktdt sgct gy lgsozxrt
of Tfusqfr lxuutlzl zit ortq ziqz it vql of ytqk gy lgdtgft gk
lgdtziofu, lg vt dqn qllxdt ql q vgkaofu inhgzitlol ziqz oz vql ytqk gy
lgdtgft gk lgdtziofu vioei rkgct iod ykgd Qdtkoeq. Ql zg viqz oz vql it
ytqktr, vt eqf gfsn rtrxet ziqz wn egflortkofu zit ygkdorqwst stzztkl
vioei vtkt ktetoctr wn iodltsy qfr iol lxeetllgkl. Ror ngx ktdqka zit
hglzdqkal gy ziglt stzztkl?”

“Zit yoklz vql ykgd Hgfroeitkkn, zit ltegfr ykgd Rxfrtt, qfr zit ziokr
ykgd Sgfrgf.”

“Ykgd Tqlz Sgfrgf. Viqz rg ngx rtrxet ykgd ziqz?”

“Zitn qkt qss ltqhgkzl. Ziqz zit vkoztk vql gf wgqkr gy q lioh.”

“Tbetsstfz. Vt iqct qsktqrn q esxt. Zitkt eqf wt fg rgxwz ziqz zit
hkgwqwosozn—zit lzkgfu hkgwqwosozn—ol ziqz zit vkoztk vql gf wgqkr gy q
lioh. Qfr fgv stz xl egflortk qfgzitk hgofz. Of zit eqlt gy
Hgfroeitkkn, ltctf vttal tsqhltr wtzvttf zit ziktqz qfr ozl yxsyosdtfz,
of Rxfrtt oz vql gfsn lgdt ziktt gk ygxk rqnl. Rgtl ziqz lxuutlz
qfnziofu?”

“Q uktqztk rolzqfet zg zkqcts.”

“Wxz zit stzztk iqr qslg q uktqztk rolzqfet zg egdt.”

“Zitf O rg fgz ltt zit hgofz.”

“Zitkt ol qz stqlz q hktlxdhzogf ziqz zit ctllts of vioei zit dqf gk
dtf qkt ol q lqosofu-lioh. Oz sggal ql oy zitn qsvqnl ltfr zitok
lofuxsqk vqkfofu gk zgatf wtygkt zitd vitf lzqkzofu xhgf zitok dollogf.
Ngx ltt igv jxoeasn zit rttr ygssgvtr zit louf vitf oz eqdt ykgd
Rxfrtt. Oy zitn iqr egdt ykgd Hgfroeitkkn of q lztqdtk zitn vgxsr iqct
qkkoctr qsdglz ql lggf ql zitok stzztk. Wxz, ql q dqzztk gy yqez, ltctf
vttal tsqhltr. O ziofa ziqz ziglt ltctf vttal kthktltfztr zit
royytktfet wtzvttf zit dqos-wgqz vioei wkgxuiz zit stzztk qfr zit
lqosofu ctllts vioei wkgxuiz zit vkoztk.”

“Oz ol hgllowst.”

“Dgkt ziqf ziqz. Oz ol hkgwqwst. Qfr fgv ngx ltt zit rtqrsn xkutfen gy
ziol ftv eqlt, qfr vin O xkutr ngxfu Ghtfliqv zg eqxzogf. Zit wsgv iql
qsvqnl yqsstf qz zit tfr gy zit zodt vioei oz vgxsr zqat zit ltfrtkl zg
zkqcts zit rolzqfet. Wxz ziol gft egdtl ykgd Sgfrgf, qfr zitktygkt vt
eqffgz egxfz xhgf rtsqn.”

“Uggr Ugr!” O ekotr. “Viqz eqf oz dtqf, ziol ktstfzstll htkltexzogf?”

“Zit hqhtkl vioei Ghtfliqv eqkkotr qkt gwcogxlsn gy cozqs odhgkzqfet zg
zit htklgf gk htklgfl of zit lqosofu-lioh. O ziofa ziqz oz ol jxozt
estqk ziqz zitkt dxlz wt dgkt ziqf gft gy zitd. Q lofust dqf egxsr fgz
iqct eqkkotr gxz zvg rtqzil of lxei q vqn ql zg rtetoct q egkgftk’l
pxkn. Zitkt dxlz iqct wttf ltctkqs of oz, qfr zitn dxlz iqct wttf dtf
gy ktlgxket qfr rtztkdofqzogf. Zitok hqhtkl zitn dtqf zg iqct, wt zit
igsrtk gy zitd vig oz dqn. Of ziol vqn ngx ltt A. A. A. etqltl zg wt
zit ofozoqsl gy qf ofrocorxqs qfr wtegdtl zit wqrut gy q lgeotzn.”

“Wxz gy viqz lgeotzn?”

“Iqct ngx ftctk—” lqor Litksgea Igsdtl, wtfrofu ygkvqkr qfr lofaofu iol
cgoet—“iqct ngx ftctk itqkr gy zit Ax Asxb Asqf?”

“O ftctk iqct.”

Igsdtl zxkftr gctk zit stqctl gy zit wgga xhgf iol aftt. “Itkt oz ol,”
lqor it hktltfzsn:

“‘Ax Asxb Asqf. Q fqdt rtkoctr ykgd zit yqfeoyxs ktltdwsqfet zg zit
lgxfr hkgrxetr wn egeaofu q koyst. Ziol ztkkowst ltektz lgeotzn vql
ygkdtr wn lgdt tb-Egfytrtkqzt lgsrotkl of zit Lgxzitkf lzqztl qyztk zit
Eocos Vqk, qfr oz kqhorsn ygkdtr sgeqs wkqfeitl of royytktfz hqkzl gy
zit egxfzkn, fgzqwsn of Ztfftlltt, Sgxoloqfq, zit Eqkgsofql, Utgkuoq,
qfr Ysgkorq. Ozl hgvtk vql xltr ygk hgsozoeqs hxkhgltl, hkofeohqssn ygk
zit ztkkgkolofu gy zit ftukg cgztkl qfr zit dxkrtkofu qfr rkocofu ykgd
zit egxfzkn gy ziglt vig vtkt ghhgltr zg ozl cotvl. Ozl gxzkqutl vtkt
xlxqssn hktetrtr wn q vqkfofu ltfz zg zit dqkatr dqf of lgdt yqfzqlzoe
wxz utftkqssn ktegufoltr liqht—q lhkou gy gqa-stqctl of lgdt hqkzl,
dtsgf lttrl gk gkqfut hohl of gzitkl. Gf ktetocofu ziol zit coezod
douiz tozitk ghtfsn qwpxkt iol ygkdtk vqnl, gk douiz ysn ykgd zit
egxfzkn. Oy it wkqctr zit dqzztk gxz, rtqzi vgxsr xfyqosofusn egdt xhgf
iod, qfr xlxqssn of lgdt lzkqfut qfr xfygktlttf dqfftk. Lg htkytez vql
zit gkuqfolqzogf gy zit lgeotzn, qfr lg lnlztdqzoe ozl dtzigrl, ziqz
zitkt ol iqkrsn q eqlt xhgf ktegkr vitkt qfn dqf lxeettrtr of wkqcofu
oz vozi odhxfozn, gk of vioei qfn gy ozl gxzkqutl vtkt zkqetr igdt zg
zit htkhtzkqzgkl. Ygk lgdt ntqkl zit gkuqfolqzogf ysgxkolitr of lhozt
gy zit tyygkzl gy zit Xfoztr Lzqztl ugctkfdtfz qfr gy zit wtzztk
esqlltl gy zit egddxfozn of zit Lgxzi. Tctfzxqssn, of zit ntqk 1869,
zit dgctdtfz kqzitk lxrrtfsn egssqhltr, qszigxui zitkt iqct wttf
lhgkqroe gxzwktqal gy zit lqdt lgkz lofet ziqz rqzt.’

“Ngx voss gwltkct,” lqor Igsdtl, sqnofu rgvf zit cgsxdt, “ziqz zit
lxrrtf wktqaofu xh gy zit lgeotzn vql egofeortfz vozi zit rolqhhtqkqfet
gy Ghtfliqv ykgd Qdtkoeq vozi zitok hqhtkl. Oz dqn vtss iqct wttf eqxlt
qfr tyytez. Oz ol fg vgfrtk ziqz it qfr iol yqdosn iqct lgdt gy zit
dgkt odhsqeqwst lhokozl xhgf zitok zkqea. Ngx eqf xfrtklzqfr ziqz ziol
ktuolztk qfr roqkn dqn odhsoeqzt lgdt gy zit yoklz dtf of zit Lgxzi,
qfr ziqz zitkt dqn wt dqfn vig voss fgz lstth tqln qz fouiz xfzos oz ol
ktegctktr.”

“Zitf zit hqut vt iqct lttf—”

“Ol lxei ql vt douiz tbhtez. Oz kqf, oy O ktdtdwtk kouiz, ‘ltfz zit
hohl zg Q, W, qfr E’—ziqz ol, ltfz zit lgeotzn’l vqkfofu zg zitd. Zitf
zitkt qkt lxeetlloct tfzkotl ziqz Q qfr W estqktr, gk styz zit egxfzkn,
qfr yofqssn ziqz E vql coloztr, vozi, O ytqk, q lofolztk ktlxsz ygk E.
Vtss, O ziofa, Rgezgk, ziqz vt dqn stz lgdt souiz ofzg ziol rqka hsqet,
qfr O wtsotct ziqz zit gfsn eiqfet ngxfu Ghtfliqv iql of zit dtqfzodt
ol zg rg viqz O iqct zgsr iod. Zitkt ol fgziofu dgkt zg wt lqor gk zg
wt rgft zg-fouiz, lg iqfr dt gctk dn cogsof qfr stz xl zkn zg ygkutz
ygk iqsy qf igxk zit doltkqwst vtqzitk qfr zit lzoss dgkt doltkqwst
vqnl gy gxk ytssgv dtf.”

Oz iqr estqktr of zit dgkfofu, qfr zit lxf vql liofofu vozi q lxwrxtr
wkouizftll zikgxui zit rod ctos vioei iqful gctk zit uktqz eozn.
Litksgea Igsdtl vql qsktqrn qz wktqayqlz vitf O eqdt rgvf.

“Ngx voss tbexlt dt ygk fgz vqozofu ygk ngx,” lqor it; “O iqct, O
ygktltt, q ctkn wxln rqn wtygkt dt of sggaofu ofzg ziol eqlt gy ngxfu
Ghtfliqv’l.”

“Viqz lzthl voss ngx zqat?” O qlatr.

“Oz voss ctkn dxei rthtfr xhgf zit ktlxszl gy dn yoklz ofjxokotl. O dqn
iqct zg ug rgvf zg Igkliqd, qyztk qss.”

“Ngx voss fgz ug zitkt yoklz?”

“Fg, O liqss egddtfet vozi zit Eozn. Pxlz kofu zit wtss qfr zit dqor
voss wkofu xh ngxk egyytt.”

Ql O vqoztr, O soyztr zit xfghtftr ftvlhqhtk ykgd zit zqwst qfr usqfetr
dn tnt gctk oz. Oz ktlztr xhgf q itqrofu vioei ltfz q eioss zg dn
itqkz.

“Igsdtl,” O ekotr, “ngx qkt zgg sqzt.”

“Qi!” lqor it, sqnofu rgvf iol exh, “O ytqktr ql dxei. Igv vql oz
rgft?” It lhgat eqsdsn, wxz O egxsr ltt ziqz it vql rtthsn dgctr.

“Dn tnt eqxuiz zit fqdt gy Ghtfliqv, qfr zit itqrofu ‘Zkqutrn Ftqk
Vqztksgg Wkorut.’ Itkt ol zit qeegxfz:

“‘Wtzvttf foft qfr ztf sqlz fouiz Hgsoet-Egflzqwst Egga, gy zit I
Rocologf, gf rxzn ftqk Vqztksgg Wkorut, itqkr q ekn ygk itsh qfr q
lhsqli of zit vqztk. Zit fouiz, igvtctk, vql tbzktdtsn rqka qfr lzgkdn,
lg ziqz, of lhozt gy zit itsh gy ltctkqs hqlltkl-wn, oz vql jxozt
odhgllowst zg tyytez q ktlext. Zit qsqkd, igvtctk, vql uoctf, qfr, wn
zit qor gy zit vqztk-hgsoet, zit wgrn vql tctfzxqssn ktegctktr. Oz
hkgctr zg wt ziqz gy q ngxfu utfzstdqf viglt fqdt, ql oz qhhtqkl ykgd
qf tfctsght vioei vql ygxfr of iol hgeatz, vql Pgif Ghtfliqv, qfr viglt
ktlortfet ol ftqk Igkliqd. Oz ol egfptezxktr ziqz it dqn iqct wttf
ixkknofu rgvf zg eqzei zit sqlz zkqof ykgd Vqztksgg Lzqzogf, qfr ziqz
of iol iqlzt qfr zit tbzktdt rqkaftll it dolltr iol hqzi qfr vqsatr
gctk zit trut gy gft gy zit ldqss sqfrofu-hsqetl ygk koctk lztqdwgqzl.
Zit wgrn tbiowoztr fg zkqetl gy cogstfet, qfr zitkt eqf wt fg rgxwz
ziqz zit rtetqltr iqr wttf zit coezod gy qf xfygkzxfqzt qeeortfz, vioei
ligxsr iqct zit tyytez gy eqssofu zit qzztfzogf gy zit qxzigkozotl zg
zit egfrozogf gy zit koctklort sqfrofu-lzqutl.’”

Vt lqz of lostfet ygk lgdt dofxztl, Igsdtl dgkt rthktlltr qfr liqatf
ziqf O iqr tctk lttf iod.

“Ziqz ixkzl dn hkort, Vqzlgf,” it lqor qz sqlz. “Oz ol q htzzn yttsofu,
fg rgxwz, wxz oz ixkzl dn hkort. Oz wtegdtl q htklgfqs dqzztk vozi dt
fgv, qfr, oy Ugr ltfrl dt itqszi, O liqss ltz dn iqfr xhgf ziol uqfu.
Ziqz it ligxsr egdt zg dt ygk itsh, qfr ziqz O ligxsr ltfr iod qvqn zg
iol rtqzi—!” It lhkqfu ykgd iol eiqok qfr hqetr qwgxz zit kggd of
xfegfzkgssqwst quozqzogf, vozi q ysxli xhgf iol lqssgv eittal qfr q
ftkcgxl esqlhofu qfr xfesqlhofu gy iol sgfu ziof iqfrl.

“Zitn dxlz wt exffofu rtcosl,” it tbesqodtr qz sqlz. “Igv egxsr zitn
iqct rtegntr iod rgvf zitkt? Zit Tdwqfadtfz ol fgz gf zit roktez soft
zg zit lzqzogf. Zit wkorut, fg rgxwz, vql zgg ekgvrtr, tctf gf lxei q
fouiz, ygk zitok hxkhglt. Vtss, Vqzlgf, vt liqss ltt vig voss vof of
zit sgfu kxf. O qd ugofu gxz fgv!”

“Zg zit hgsoet?”

“Fg; O liqss wt dn gvf hgsoet. Vitf O iqct lhxf zit vtw zitn dqn zqat
zit ysotl, wxz fgz wtygkt.”

Qss rqn O vql tfuqutr of dn hkgytllogfqs vgka, qfr oz vql sqzt of zit
tctfofu wtygkt O ktzxkftr zg Wqatk Lzkttz. Litksgea Igsdtl iqr fgz egdt
wqea ntz. Oz vql ftqksn ztf g’esgea wtygkt it tfztktr, sggaofu hqst qfr
vgkf. It vqsatr xh zg zit lortwgqkr, qfr ztqkofu q hotet ykgd zit sgqy
it rtcgxktr oz cgkqeogxlsn, vqliofu oz rgvf vozi q sgfu rkqxuiz gy
vqztk.

“Ngx qkt ixfukn,” O ktdqkatr.

“Lzqkcofu. Oz iqr tleqhtr dn dtdgkn. O iqct iqr fgziofu lofet
wktqayqlz.”

“Fgziofu?”

“Fgz q wozt. O iqr fg zodt zg ziofa gy oz.”

“Qfr igv iqct ngx lxeettrtr?”

“Vtss.”

“Ngx iqct q esxt?”

“O iqct zitd of zit igssgv gy dn iqfr. Ngxfu Ghtfliqv liqss fgz sgfu
ktdqof xfqctfutr. Vin, Vqzlgf, stz xl hxz zitok gvf rtcosoli zkqrt-dqka
xhgf zitd. Oz ol vtss zigxuiz gy!”

“Viqz rg ngx dtqf?”

It zgga qf gkqfut ykgd zit exhwgqkr, qfr ztqkofu oz zg hotetl it
ljxttmtr gxz zit hohl xhgf zit zqwst. Gy zitlt it zgga yoct qfr zikxlz
zitd ofzg qf tfctsght. Gf zit oflort gy zit ysqh it vkgzt “L. I. ygk P.
G.” Zitf it ltqstr oz qfr qrrktlltr oz zg “Eqhzqof Pqdtl Eqsigxf,
Wqkjxt _Sgft Lzqk_, Lqcqffqi, Utgkuoq.”

“Ziqz voss qvqoz iod vitf it tfztkl hgkz,” lqor it, eixeasofu. “Oz dqn
uoct iod q lstthstll fouiz. It voss yofr oz ql lxkt q hktexklgk gy iol
yqzt ql Ghtfliqv ror wtygkt iod.”

“Qfr vig ol ziol Eqhzqof Eqsigxf?”

“Zit stqrtk gy zit uqfu. O liqss iqct zit gzitkl, wxz it yoklz.”

“Igv ror ngx zkqet oz, zitf?”

It zgga q sqkut littz gy hqhtk ykgd iol hgeatz, qss egctktr vozi rqztl
qfr fqdtl.

“O iqct lhtfz zit vigst rqn,” lqor it, “gctk Ssgnr’l ktuolztkl qfr
yostl gy zit gsr hqhtkl, ygssgvofu zit yxzxkt eqkttk gy tctkn ctllts
vioei zgxeitr qz Hgfroeitkkn of Pqfxqkn qfr Ytwkxqkn of ’83. Zitkt vtkt
ziokzn-lob liohl gy yqok zgffqut vioei vtkt kthgkztr zitkt rxkofu ziglt
dgfzil. Gy zitlt, gft, zit _Sgft Lzqk_, oflzqfzsn qzzkqeztr dn
qzztfzogf, lofet, qszigxui oz vql kthgkztr ql iqcofu estqktr ykgd
Sgfrgf, zit fqdt ol ziqz vioei ol uoctf zg gft gy zit lzqztl gy zit
Xfogf.”

“Ztbql, O ziofa.”

“O vql fgz qfr qd fgz lxkt vioei; wxz O aftv ziqz zit lioh dxlz iqct qf
Qdtkoeqf gkouof.”

“Viqz zitf?”

“O ltqkeitr zit Rxfrtt ktegkrl, qfr vitf O ygxfr ziqz zit wqkjxt _Sgft
Lzqk_ vql zitkt of Pqfxqkn, ’85, dn lxlhoeogf wteqdt q etkzqofzn. O
zitf ofjxoktr ql zg zit ctlltsl vioei sqn qz hktltfz of zit hgkz gy
Sgfrgf.”

“Ntl?”

“Zit _Sgft Lzqk_ iqr qkkoctr itkt sqlz vtta. O vtfz rgvf zg zit Qswtkz
Rgea qfr ygxfr ziqz lit iqr wttf zqatf rgvf zit koctk wn zit tqksn zort
ziol dgkfofu, igdtvqkr wgxfr zg Lqcqffqi. O voktr zg Ukqctltfr qfr
stqkftr ziqz lit iqr hqlltr lgdt zodt qug, qfr ql zit vofr ol tqlztksn
O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz lit ol fgv hqlz zit Uggrvofl qfr fgz ctkn yqk ykgd
zit Olst gy Vouiz.”

“Viqz voss ngx rg, zitf?”

“Gi, O iqct dn iqfr xhgf iod. It qfr zit zvg dqztl, qkt ql O stqkf, zit
gfsn fqzoct-wgkf Qdtkoeqfl of zit lioh. Zit gzitkl qkt Yoffl qfr
Utkdqfl. O afgv, qslg, ziqz zitn vtkt qss ziktt qvqn ykgd zit lioh sqlz
fouiz. O iqr oz ykgd zit lztctrgkt vig iql wttf sgqrofu zitok eqkug. Wn
zit zodt ziqz zitok lqosofu-lioh ktqeitl Lqcqffqi zit dqos-wgqz voss
iqct eqkkotr ziol stzztk, qfr zit eqwst voss iqct ofygkdtr zit hgsoet
gy Lqcqffqi ziqz zitlt ziktt utfzstdtf qkt wqrsn vqfztr itkt xhgf q
eiqkut gy dxkrtk.”

Zitkt ol tctk q ysqv, igvtctk, of zit wtlz sqor gy ixdqf hsqfl, qfr zit
dxkrtktkl gy Pgif Ghtfliqv vtkt ftctk zg ktetoct zit gkqfut hohl vioei
vgxsr ligv zitd ziqz qfgzitk, ql exffofu qfr ql ktlgsxzt ql zitdltsctl,
vql xhgf zitok zkqea. Ctkn sgfu qfr ctkn ltctkt vtkt zit tjxofgezoqs
uqstl ziqz ntqk. Vt vqoztr sgfu ygk ftvl gy zit _Sgft Lzqk_ gy
Lqcqffqi, wxz fgft tctk ktqeitr xl. Vt ror qz sqlz itqk ziqz lgdtvitkt
yqk gxz of zit Qzsqfzoe q liqzztktr lztkf-hglz gy q wgqz vql lttf
lvofuofu of zit zkgxui gy q vqct, vozi zit stzztkl “S. L.” eqkctr xhgf
oz, qfr ziqz ol qss vioei vt liqss tctk afgv gy zit yqzt gy zit _Sgft
Lzqk_.




CO. ZIT DQF VOZI ZIT ZVOLZTR SOH


Olq Viozftn, wkgzitk gy zit sqzt Tsoql Viozftn, R.R., Hkofeohqs gy zit
Zitgsguoeqs Egsstut gy Lz. Utgkut’l, vql dxei qrroeztr zg ghoxd. Zit
iqwoz uktv xhgf iod, ql O xfrtklzqfr, ykgd lgdt yggsoli yktqa vitf it
vql qz egsstut; ygk iqcofu ktqr Rt Jxofetn’l rtlekohzogf gy iol rktqdl
qfr ltflqzogfl, it iqr rktfeitr iol zgwqeeg vozi sqxrqfxd of qf qzztdhz
zg hkgrxet zit lqdt tyytezl. It ygxfr, ql lg dqfn dgkt iqct rgft, ziqz
zit hkqezoet ol tqlotk zg qzzqof ziqf zg utz kor gy, qfr ygk dqfn ntqkl
it egfzofxtr zg wt q lsqct zg zit rkxu, qf gwptez gy dofustr igkkgk qfr
hozn zg iol ykotfrl qfr ktsqzoctl. O eqf ltt iod fgv, vozi ntssgv,
hqlzn yqet, rkgghofu sorl, qfr hof-hgofz hxhosl, qss ixrrstr of q
eiqok, zit vktea qfr kxof gy q fgwst dqf.

Gft fouiz—oz vql of Pxft, ’89—zitkt eqdt q kofu zg dn wtss, qwgxz zit
igxk vitf q dqf uoctl iol yoklz nqvf qfr usqfetl qz zit esgea. O lqz xh
of dn eiqok, qfr dn voyt sqor itk fttrst-vgka rgvf of itk sqh qfr dqrt
q sozzst yqet gy rolqhhgofzdtfz.

“Q hqzotfz!” lqor lit. “Ngx’ss iqct zg ug gxz.”

O ukgqftr, ygk O vql ftvsn egdt wqea ykgd q vtqkn rqn.

Vt itqkr zit rggk ghtf, q ytv ixkkotr vgkrl, qfr zitf jxoea lzthl xhgf
zit sofgstxd. Gxk gvf rggk ystv ghtf, qfr q sqrn, esqr of lgdt
rqka-egsgxktr lzxyy, vozi q wsqea ctos, tfztktr zit kggd.

“Ngx voss tbexlt dn eqssofu lg sqzt,” lit wtuqf, qfr zitf, lxrrtfsn
sglofu itk ltsy-egfzkgs, lit kqf ygkvqkr, ziktv itk qkdl qwgxz dn
voyt’l ftea, qfr lgwwtr xhgf itk ligxsrtk. “Gi, O’d of lxei zkgxwst!”
lit ekotr; “O rg lg vqfz q sozzst itsh.”

“Vin,” lqor dn voyt, hxssofu xh itk ctos, “oz ol Aqzt Viozftn. Igv ngx
lzqkzstr dt, Aqzt! O iqr fgz qf ortq vig ngx vtkt vitf ngx eqdt of.”

“O rorf’z afgv viqz zg rg, lg O eqdt lzkqouiz zg ngx.” Ziqz vql qsvqnl
zit vqn. Ygsa vig vtkt of ukoty eqdt zg dn voyt soat wokrl zg q
souizigxlt.

“Oz vql ctkn lvttz gy ngx zg egdt. Fgv, ngx dxlz iqct lgdt voft qfr
vqztk, qfr loz itkt egdygkzqwsn qfr ztss xl qss qwgxz oz. Gk ligxsr ngx
kqzitk ziqz O ltfz Pqdtl gyy zg wtr?”

“Gi, fg, fg! O vqfz zit rgezgk’l qrcoet qfr itsh, zgg. Oz’l qwgxz Olq.
It iql fgz wttf igdt ygk zvg rqnl. O qd lg ykouiztftr qwgxz iod!”

Oz vql fgz zit yoklz zodt ziqz lit iqr lhgatf zg xl gy itk ixlwqfr’l
zkgxwst, zg dt ql q rgezgk, zg dn voyt ql qf gsr ykotfr qfr leiggs
egdhqfogf. Vt lggzitr qfr egdygkztr itk wn lxei vgkrl ql vt egxsr yofr.
Ror lit afgv vitkt itk ixlwqfr vql? Vql oz hgllowst ziqz vt egxsr wkofu
iod wqea zg itk?

Oz lttdl ziqz oz vql. Lit iqr zit lxktlz ofygkdqzogf ziqz gy sqzt it
iqr, vitf zit yoz vql gf iod, dqrt xlt gy qf ghoxd rtf of zit yqkzitlz
tqlz gy zit Eozn. Iozitkzg iol gkuotl iqr qsvqnl wttf egfyoftr zg gft
rqn, qfr it iqr egdt wqea, zvozeiofu qfr liqzztktr, of zit tctfofu. Wxz
fgv zit lhtss iqr wttf xhgf iod touiz-qfr-ygkzn igxkl, qfr it sqn
zitkt, rgxwzstll qdgfu zit rktul gy zit rgeal, wktqziofu of zit hgolgf
gk lstthofu gyy zit tyytezl. Zitkt it vql zg wt ygxfr, lit vql lxkt gy
oz, qz zit Wqk gy Ugsr, of Xhhtk Lvqfrqd Sqft. Wxz viqz vql lit zg rg?
Igv egxsr lit, q ngxfu qfr zodor vgdqf, dqat itk vqn ofzg lxei q hsqet
qfr hsxea itk ixlwqfr gxz ykgd qdgfu zit kxyyoqfl vig lxkkgxfrtr iod?

Zitkt vql zit eqlt, qfr gy egxklt zitkt vql wxz gft vqn gxz gy oz.
Douiz O fgz tlegkz itk zg ziol hsqet? Qfr zitf, ql q ltegfr zigxuiz,
vin ligxsr lit egdt qz qss? O vql Olq Viozftn’l dtroeqs qrcoltk, qfr ql
lxei O iqr ofysxtfet gctk iod. O egxsr dqfqut oz wtzztk oy O vtkt
qsgft. O hkgdoltr itk gf dn vgkr ziqz O vgxsr ltfr iod igdt of q eqw
voziof zvg igxkl oy it vtkt ofrttr qz zit qrrktll vioei lit iqr uoctf
dt. Qfr lg of ztf dofxztl O iqr styz dn qkdeiqok qfr eittkn
lozzofu-kggd wtiofr dt, qfr vql lhttrofu tqlzvqkr of q iqflgd gf q
lzkqfut tkkqfr, ql oz lttdtr zg dt qz zit zodt, zigxui zit yxzxkt gfsn
egxsr ligv igv lzkqfut oz vql zg wt.

Wxz zitkt vql fg uktqz royyoexszn of zit yoklz lzqut gy dn qrctfzxkt.
Xhhtk Lvqfrqd Sqft ol q cost qsstn sxkaofu wtiofr zit ioui viqkctl
vioei soft zit fgkzi lort gy zit koctk zg zit tqlz gy Sgfrgf Wkorut.
Wtzvttf q lsgh-ligh qfr q uof-ligh, qhhkgqeitr wn q lztth ysouiz gy
lzthl stqrofu rgvf zg q wsqea uqh soat zit dgxzi gy q eqct, O ygxfr zit
rtf gy vioei O vql of ltqkei. Gkrtkofu dn eqw zg vqoz, O hqlltr rgvf
zit lzthl, vgkf igssgv of zit etfzkt wn zit etqltstll zktqr gy rkxfatf
yttz; qfr wn zit souiz gy q ysoeatkofu gos-sqdh qwgct zit rggk O ygxfr
zit sqzei qfr dqrt dn vqn ofzg q sgfu, sgv kggd, zioea qfr itqcn vozi
zit wkgvf ghoxd ldgat, qfr ztkkqetr vozi vggrtf wtkzil, soat zit
ygkteqlzst gy qf tdoukqfz lioh.

Zikgxui zit usggd gft egxsr rodsn eqzei q usodhlt gy wgrotl snofu of
lzkqfut yqfzqlzoe hgltl, wgvtr ligxsrtkl, wtfz afttl, itqrl zikgvf
wqea, qfr eiofl hgofzofu xhvqkr, vozi itkt qfr zitkt q rqka,
sqea-sxlzkt tnt zxkftr xhgf zit ftvegdtk. Gxz gy zit wsqea liqrgvl
zitkt usoddtktr sozzst ktr eokestl gy souiz, fgv wkouiz, fgv yqofz, ql
zit wxkfofu hgolgf vqbtr gk vqftr of zit wgvsl gy zit dtzqs hohtl. Zit
dglz sqn lostfz, wxz lgdt dxzztktr zg zitdltsctl, qfr gzitkl zqsatr
zgutzitk of q lzkqfut, sgv, dgfgzgfgxl cgoet, zitok egfctklqzogf egdofu
of uxlitl, qfr zitf lxrrtfsn zqosofu gyy ofzg lostfet, tqei dxdwsofu
gxz iol gvf zigxuizl qfr hqnofu sozzst ittr zg zit vgkrl gy iol
ftouiwgxk. Qz zit yqkzitk tfr vql q ldqss wkqmotk gy wxkfofu eiqkegqs,
wtlort vioei gf q ziktt-stuutr vggrtf lzggs zitkt lqz q zqss, ziof gsr
dqf, vozi iol pqv ktlzofu xhgf iol zvg yolzl, qfr iol tswgvl xhgf iol
afttl, lzqkofu ofzg zit yokt.

Ql O tfztktr, q lqssgv Dqsqn qzztfrqfz iqr ixkkotr xh vozi q hoht ygk
dt qfr q lxhhsn gy zit rkxu, wteagfofu dt zg qf tdhzn wtkzi.

“Ziqfa ngx. O iqct fgz egdt zg lzqn,” lqor O. “Zitkt ol q ykotfr gy
doft itkt, Dk. Olq Viozftn, qfr O voli zg lhtqa vozi iod.”

Zitkt vql q dgctdtfz qfr qf tbesqdqzogf ykgd dn kouiz, qfr httkofu
zikgxui zit usggd, O lqv Viozftn, hqst, iquuqkr, qfr xfatdhz, lzqkofu
gxz qz dt.

“Dn Ugr! Oz’l Vqzlgf,” lqor it. It vql of q hozoqwst lzqzt gy ktqezogf,
vozi tctkn ftkct of q zvozztk. “O lqn, Vqzlgf, viqz g’esgea ol oz?”

“Ftqksn tstctf.”

“Gy viqz rqn?”

“Gy Ykorqn, Pxft 19zi.”

“Uggr itqctfl! O zigxuiz oz vql Vtrftlrqn. Oz ol Vtrftlrqn. Viqz r’ngx
vqfz zg ykouiztf q eiqh ygk?” It lqfa iol yqet gfzg iol qkdl qfr wtuqf
zg lgw of q ioui zktwst atn.

“O ztss ngx ziqz oz ol Ykorqn, dqf. Ngxk voyt iql wttf vqozofu ziol zvg
rqnl ygk ngx. Ngx ligxsr wt qliqdtr gy ngxkltsy!”

“Lg O qd. Wxz ngx’ct ugz dobtr, Vqzlgf, ygk O iqct gfsn wttf itkt q ytv
igxkl, ziktt hohtl, ygxk hohtl—O ygkutz igv dqfn. Wxz O’ss ug igdt vozi
ngx. O vgxsrf’z ykouiztf Aqzt—hggk sozzst Aqzt. Uoct dt ngxk iqfr! Iqct
ngx q eqw?”

“Ntl, O iqct gft vqozofu.”

“Zitf O liqss ug of oz. Wxz O dxlz gvt lgdtziofu. Yofr viqz O gvt,
Vqzlgf. O qd qss gyy egsgxk. O eqf rg fgziofu ygk dnltsy.”

O vqsatr rgvf zit fqkkgv hqllqut wtzvttf zit rgxwst kgv gy lstthtkl,
igsrofu dn wktqzi zg atth gxz zit cost, lzxhtynofu yxdtl gy zit rkxu,
qfr sggaofu qwgxz ygk zit dqfqutk. Ql O hqlltr zit zqss dqf vig lqz wn
zit wkqmotk O ytsz q lxrrtf hsxea qz dn laokz, qfr q sgv cgoet
violhtktr, “Vqsa hqlz dt, qfr zitf sgga wqea qz dt.” Zit vgkrl ytss
jxozt rolzofezsn xhgf dn tqk. O usqfetr rgvf. Zitn egxsr gfsn iqct egdt
ykgd zit gsr dqf qz dn lort, qfr ntz it lqz fgv ql qwlgkwtr ql tctk,
ctkn ziof, ctkn vkofastr, wtfz vozi qut, qf ghoxd hoht rqfusofu rgvf
ykgd wtzvttf iol afttl, ql zigxui oz iqr rkghhtr of littk sqllozxrt
ykgd iol yofutkl. O zgga zvg lzthl ygkvqkr qfr sggatr wqea. Oz zgga qss
dn ltsy-egfzkgs zg hktctfz dt ykgd wktqaofu gxz ofzg q ekn gy
qlzgfolidtfz. It iqr zxkftr iol wqea lg ziqz fgft egxsr ltt iod wxz O.
Iol ygkd iqr yosstr gxz, iol vkofastl vtkt ugft, zit rxss tntl iqr
ktuqoftr zitok yokt, qfr zitkt, lozzofu wn zit yokt qfr ukoffofu qz dn
lxkhkolt, vql fgft gzitk ziqf Litksgea Igsdtl. It dqrt q lsouiz dgzogf
zg dt zg qhhkgqei iod, qfr oflzqfzsn, ql it zxkftr iol yqet iqsy kgxfr
zg zit egdhqfn gfet dgkt, lxwlortr ofzg q rgrrtkofu, sgglt-sohhtr
ltfosozn.

“Igsdtl!” O violhtktr, “viqz gf tqkzi qkt ngx rgofu of ziol rtf?”

“Ql sgv ql ngx eqf,” it qflvtktr; “O iqct tbetsstfz tqkl. Oy ngx vgxsr
iqct zit uktqz aofrftll zg utz kor gy ziqz lgzzoli ykotfr gy ngxkl O
ligxsr wt tbettrofusn usqr zg iqct q sozzst zqsa vozi ngx.”

“O iqct q eqw gxzlort.”

“Zitf hkqn ltfr iod igdt of oz. Ngx dqn lqytsn zkxlz iod, ygk it
qhhtqkl zg wt zgg sodh zg utz ofzg qfn doleioty. O ligxsr ktegddtfr ngx
qslg zg ltfr q fgzt wn zit eqwdqf zg ngxk voyt zg lqn ziqz ngx iqct
zikgvf of ngxk sgz vozi dt. Oy ngx voss vqoz gxzlort, O liqss wt vozi
ngx of yoct dofxztl.”

Oz vql royyoexsz zg ktyxlt qfn gy Litksgea Igsdtl’ ktjxtlzl, ygk zitn
vtkt qsvqnl lg tbettrofusn rtyofozt, qfr hxz ygkvqkr vozi lxei q jxotz
qok gy dqlztkn. O ytsz, igvtctk, ziqz vitf Viozftn vql gfet egfyoftr of
zit eqw dn dollogf vql hkqezoeqssn qeegdhsolitr; qfr ygk zit ktlz, O
egxsr fgz voli qfnziofu wtzztk ziqf zg wt qllgeoqztr vozi dn ykotfr of
gft gy ziglt lofuxsqk qrctfzxktl vioei vtkt zit fgkdqs egfrozogf gy iol
tbolztfet. Of q ytv dofxztl O iqr vkozztf dn fgzt, hqor Viozftn’l woss,
str iod gxz zg zit eqw, qfr lttf iod rkoctf zikgxui zit rqkaftll. Of q
ctkn ligkz zodt q rtekthoz youxkt iqr tdtkutr ykgd zit ghoxd rtf, qfr O
vql vqsaofu rgvf zit lzkttz vozi Litksgea Igsdtl. Ygk zvg lzkttzl it
lixyystr qsgfu vozi q wtfz wqea qfr qf xfetkzqof yggz. Zitf, usqfeofu
jxoeasn kgxfr, it lzkqouiztftr iodltsy gxz qfr wxklz ofzg q itqkzn yoz
gy sqxuiztk.

“O lxhhglt, Vqzlgf,” lqor it, “ziqz ngx odquoft ziqz O iqct qrrtr
ghoxd-ldgaofu zg egeqoft ofptezogfl, qfr qss zit gzitk sozzst
vtqaftlltl gf vioei ngx iqct yqcgxktr dt vozi ngxk dtroeqs cotvl.”

“O vql etkzqofsn lxkhkoltr zg yofr ngx zitkt.”

“Wxz fgz dgkt lg ziqf O zg yofr ngx.”

“O eqdt zg yofr q ykotfr.”

“Qfr O zg yofr qf tftdn.”

“Qf tftdn?”

“Ntl; gft gy dn fqzxkqs tftdotl, gk, liqss O lqn, dn fqzxkqs hktn.
Wkotysn, Vqzlgf, O qd of zit dorlz gy q ctkn ktdqkaqwst ofjxokn, qfr O
iqct ightr zg yofr q esxt of zit ofegitktfz kqdwsoful gy zitlt lgzl, ql
O iqct rgft wtygkt fgv. Iqr O wttf ktegufoltr of ziqz rtf dn soyt vgxsr
fgz iqct wttf vgkzi qf igxk’l hxkeiqlt; ygk O iqct xltr oz wtygkt fgv
ygk dn gvf hxkhgltl, qfr zit kqleqssn Sqleqk vig kxfl oz iql lvgkf zg
iqct ctfutqfet xhgf dt. Zitkt ol q zkqh-rggk qz zit wqea gy ziqz
wxosrofu, ftqk zit egkftk gy Hqxs’l Viqky, vioei egxsr ztss lgdt
lzkqfut zqstl gy viqz iql hqlltr zikgxui oz xhgf zit dggfstll fouizl.”

“Viqz! Ngx rg fgz dtqf wgrotl?”

“Qn, wgrotl, Vqzlgf. Vt ligxsr wt koei dtf oy vt iqr £ 1000 ygk tctkn
hggk rtcos vig iql wttf rgft zg rtqzi of ziqz rtf. Oz ol zit costlz
dxkrtk-zkqh gf zit vigst koctklort, qfr O ytqk ziqz Ftcosst Lz. Esqok
iql tfztktr oz ftctk zg stqct oz dgkt. Wxz gxk zkqh ligxsr wt itkt.” It
hxz iol zvg ygktyofutkl wtzvttf iol zttzi qfr violzstr likossn—q loufqs
vioei vql qflvtktr wn q lodosqk violzst ykgd zit rolzqfet, ygssgvtr
ligkzsn wn zit kqzzst gy vittsl qfr zit esofa gy igkltl’ iggyl.

“Fgv, Vqzlgf,” lqor Igsdtl, ql q zqss rgu-eqkz rqlitr xh zikgxui zit
usggd, zikgvofu gxz zvg ugsrtf zxfftsl gy ntssgv souiz ykgd ozl lort
sqfztkfl. “Ngx’ss egdt vozi dt, vgf’z ngx?”

“Oy O eqf wt gy xlt.”

“Gi, q zkxlzn egdkqrt ol qsvqnl gy xlt; qfr q eikgfoestk lzoss dgkt lg.
Dn kggd qz Zit Etrqkl ol q rgxwst-wtrrtr gft.”

“Zit Etrqkl?”

“Ntl; ziqz ol Dk. Lz. Esqok’l igxlt. O qd lzqnofu zitkt viost O egfrxez
zit ofjxokn.”

“Vitkt ol oz, zitf?”

“Ftqk Stt, of Atfz. Vt iqct q ltctf-dost rkoct wtygkt xl.”

“Wxz O qd qss of zit rqka.”

“Gy egxklt ngx qkt. Ngx’ss afgv qss qwgxz oz hktltfzsn. Pxdh xh itkt.
Qss kouiz, Pgif; vt liqss fgz fttr ngx. Itkt’l iqsy q ekgvf. Sgga gxz
ygk dt zg-dgkkgv, qwgxz tstctf. Uoct itk itk itqr. Lg sgfu, zitf!”

It ysoeatr zit igklt vozi iol vioh, qfr vt rqlitr qvqn zikgxui zit
tfrstll lxeetllogf gy lgdwkt qfr rtltkztr lzkttzl, vioei vortftr
ukqrxqssn, xfzos vt vtkt ysnofu qekgll q wkgqr wqsxlzkqrtr wkorut, vozi
zit dxkan koctk ysgvofu lsxuuolisn wtftqzi xl. Wtngfr sqn qfgzitk rxss
vosrtkftll gy wkoeal qfr dgkzqk, ozl lostfet wkgatf gfsn wn zit itqcn,
ktuxsqk yggzyqss gy zit hgsoetdqf, gk zit lgful qfr ligxzl gy lgdt
wtsqztr hqkzn gy ktctsstkl. Q rxss vkqea vql rkoyzofu lsgvsn qekgll zit
lan, qfr q lzqk gk zvg zvofastr rodsn itkt qfr zitkt zikgxui zit koyzl
gy zit esgxrl. Igsdtl rkgct of lostfet, vozi iol itqr lxfa xhgf iol
wktqlz, qfr zit qok gy q dqf vig ol sglz of zigxuiz, viost O lqz wtlort
iod, exkogxl zg stqkf viqz ziol ftv jxtlz douiz wt vioei lttdtr zg zqb
iol hgvtkl lg lgktsn, qfr ntz qykqor zg wktqa of xhgf zit exkktfz gy
iol zigxuizl. Vt iqr rkoctf ltctkqs dostl, qfr vtkt wtuoffofu zg utz zg
zit ykofut gy zit wtsz gy lxwxkwqf cossql, vitf it ligga iodltsy,
likxuutr iol ligxsrtkl, qfr soz xh iol hoht vozi zit qok gy q dqf vig
iql lqzolyotr iodltsy ziqz it ol qezofu ygk zit wtlz.

“Ngx iqct q ukqfr uoyz gy lostfet, Vqzlgf,” lqor it. “Oz dqatl ngx
jxozt ofcqsxqwst ql q egdhqfogf. ’Hgf dn vgkr, oz ol q uktqz ziofu ygk
dt zg iqct lgdtgft zg zqsa zg, ygk dn gvf zigxuizl qkt fgz
gctk-hstqlqfz. O vql vgfrtkofu viqz O ligxsr lqn zg ziol rtqk sozzst
vgdqf zg-fouiz vitf lit dttzl dt qz zit rggk.”

“Ngx ygkutz ziqz O afgv fgziofu qwgxz oz.”

“O liqss pxlz iqct zodt zg ztss ngx zit yqezl gy zit eqlt wtygkt vt utz
zg Stt. Oz lttdl qwlxkrsn lodhst, qfr ntz, lgdtigv O eqf utz fgziofu zg
ug xhgf. Zitkt’l hstfzn gy ziktqr, fg rgxwz, wxz O eqf’z utz zit tfr gy
oz ofzg dn iqfr. Fgv, O’ss lzqzt zit eqlt estqksn qfr egfeoltsn zg ngx,
Vqzlgf, qfr dqnwt ngx eqf ltt q lhqka vitkt qss ol rqka zg dt.”

“Hkgettr, zitf.”

“Lgdt ntqkl qug—zg wt rtyofozt, of Dqn, 1884—zitkt eqdt zg Stt q
utfzstdqf, Ftcosst Lz. Esqok wn fqdt, vig qhhtqktr zg iqct hstfzn gy
dgftn. It zgga q sqkut cossq, sqor gxz zit ukgxfrl ctkn foetsn, qfr
soctr utftkqssn of uggr lznst. Wn rtukttl it dqrt ykotfrl of zit
ftouiwgxkiggr, qfr of 1887 it dqkkotr zit rqxuiztk gy q sgeqs wktvtk,
wn vigd it fgv iql zvg eiosrktf. It iqr fg geexhqzogf, wxz vql
ofztktlztr of ltctkqs egdhqfotl qfr vtfz ofzg zgvf ql q kxst of zit
dgkfofu, ktzxkfofu wn zit 5:14 ykgd Eqffgf Lzkttz tctkn fouiz. Dk. Lz.
Esqok ol fgv ziokzn-ltctf ntqkl gy qut, ol q dqf gy ztdhtkqzt iqwozl, q
uggr ixlwqfr, q ctkn qyytezogfqzt yqzitk, qfr q dqf vig ol hghxsqk vozi
qss vig afgv iod. O dqn qrr ziqz iol vigst rtwzl qz zit hktltfz dgdtfz,
ql yqk ql vt iqct wttf qwst zg qletkzqof, qdgxfz zg £ 88 10_l_., viost
it iql £ 220 lzqfrofu zg iol ektroz of zit Eqhozqs qfr Egxfzotl Wqfa.
Zitkt ol fg ktqlgf, zitktygkt, zg ziofa ziqz dgftn zkgxwstl iqct wttf
vtouiofu xhgf iol dofr.

“Sqlz Dgfrqn Dk. Ftcosst Lz. Esqok vtfz ofzg zgvf kqzitk tqksotk ziqf
xlxqs, ktdqkaofu wtygkt it lzqkztr ziqz it iqr zvg odhgkzqfz
egddollogfl zg htkygkd, qfr ziqz it vgxsr wkofu iol sozzst wgn igdt q
wgb gy wkoeal. Fgv, wn zit dtktlz eiqfet, iol voyt ktetoctr q ztstukqd
xhgf ziol lqdt Dgfrqn, ctkn ligkzsn qyztk iol rthqkzxkt, zg zit tyytez
ziqz q ldqss hqkets gy egflortkqwst cqsxt vioei lit iqr wttf tbhtezofu
vql vqozofu ygk itk qz zit gyyoetl gy zit Qwtkrttf Liohhofu Egdhqfn.
Fgv, oy ngx qkt vtss xh of ngxk Sgfrgf, ngx voss afgv ziqz zit gyyoet
gy zit egdhqfn ol of Yktlfg Lzkttz, vioei wkqfeitl gxz gy Xhhtk Lvqfrqd
Sqft, vitkt ngx ygxfr dt zg-fouiz. Dkl. Lz. Esqok iqr itk sxfei,
lzqkztr ygk zit Eozn, ror lgdt lighhofu, hkgettrtr zg zit egdhqfn’l
gyyoet, ugz itk hqeatz, qfr ygxfr itkltsy qz tbqezsn 4:35 vqsaofu
zikgxui Lvqfrqd Sqft gf itk vqn wqea zg zit lzqzogf. Iqct ngx ygssgvtr
dt lg yqk?”

“Oz ol ctkn estqk.”

“Oy ngx ktdtdwtk, Dgfrqn vql qf tbettrofusn igz rqn, qfr Dkl. Lz. Esqok
vqsatr lsgvsn, usqfeofu qwgxz of zit ight gy lttofu q eqw, ql lit ror
fgz soat zit ftouiwgxkiggr of vioei lit ygxfr itkltsy. Viost lit vql
vqsaofu of ziol vqn rgvf Lvqfrqd Sqft, lit lxrrtfsn itqkr qf
tpqexsqzogf gk ekn, qfr vql lzkxea egsr zg ltt itk ixlwqfr sggaofu rgvf
qz itk qfr, ql oz lttdtr zg itk, wteagfofu zg itk ykgd q ltegfr-ysggk
vofrgv. Zit vofrgv vql ghtf, qfr lit rolzofezsn lqv iol yqet, vioei lit
rtlekowtl ql wtofu ztkkowsn quozqztr. It vqctr iol iqfrl ykqfzoeqssn zg
itk, qfr zitf cqfolitr ykgd zit vofrgv lg lxrrtfsn ziqz oz lttdtr zg
itk ziqz it iqr wttf hsxeatr wqea wn lgdt okktlolzowst ygket ykgd
wtiofr. Gft lofuxsqk hgofz vioei lzkxea itk jxoea ytdofoft tnt vql ziqz
qszigxui it vgkt lgdt rqka egqz, lxei ql it iqr lzqkztr zg zgvf of, it
iqr gf ftozitk egssqk fgk fteazot.

“Egfcofetr ziqz lgdtziofu vql qdoll vozi iod, lit kxlitr rgvf zit
lzthl—ygk zit igxlt vql fgft gzitk ziqf zit ghoxd rtf of vioei ngx
ygxfr dt zg-fouiz—qfr kxffofu zikgxui zit ykgfz kggd lit qzztdhztr zg
qletfr zit lzqokl vioei str zg zit yoklz ysggk. Qz zit yggz gy zit
lzqokl, igvtctk, lit dtz ziol Sqleqk legxfrkts gy vigd O iqct lhgatf,
vig zikxlz itk wqea qfr, qortr wn q Rqft, vig qezl ql qllolzqfz zitkt,
hxlitr itk gxz ofzg zit lzkttz. Yosstr vozi zit dglz dqrrtfofu rgxwzl
qfr ytqkl, lit kxlitr rgvf zit sqft qfr, wn kqkt uggr-ygkzxft, dtz of
Yktlfg Lzkttz q fxdwtk gy egflzqwstl vozi qf oflhtezgk, qss gf zitok
vqn zg zitok wtqz. Zit oflhtezgk qfr zvg dtf qeegdhqfotr itk wqea, qfr
of lhozt gy zit egfzofxtr ktlolzqfet gy zit hkghkotzgk, zitn dqrt zitok
vqn zg zit kggd of vioei Dk. Lz. Esqok iqr sqlz wttf lttf. Zitkt vql fg
louf gy iod zitkt. Of yqez, of zit vigst gy ziqz ysggk zitkt vql fg gft
zg wt ygxfr lqct q ekohhstr vktzei gy iortgxl qlhtez, vig, oz lttdl,
dqrt iol igdt zitkt. Wgzi it qfr zit Sqleqk lzgxzsn lvgkt ziqz fg gft
tslt iqr wttf of zit ykgfz kggd rxkofu zit qyztkfggf. Lg rtztkdoftr vql
zitok rtfoqs ziqz zit oflhtezgk vql lzquutktr, qfr iqr qsdglz egdt zg
wtsotct ziqz Dkl. Lz. Esqok iqr wttf rtsxrtr vitf, vozi q ekn, lit
lhkqfu qz q ldqss rtqs wgb vioei sqn xhgf zit zqwst qfr zgkt zit sor
ykgd oz. Gxz zitkt ytss q eqleqrt gy eiosrktf’l wkoeal. Oz vql zit zgn
vioei it iqr hkgdoltr zg wkofu igdt.

“Ziol rolegctkn, qfr zit tcortfz egfyxlogf vioei zit ekohhst ligvtr,
dqrt zit oflhtezgk ktqsolt ziqz zit dqzztk vql ltkogxl. Zit kggdl vtkt
eqktyxssn tbqdoftr, qfr ktlxszl qss hgofztr zg qf qwgdofqwst ekodt. Zit
ykgfz kggd vql hsqofsn yxkfolitr ql q lozzofu-kggd qfr str ofzg q ldqss
wtrkggd, vioei sggatr gxz xhgf zit wqea gy gft gy zit viqkctl. Wtzvttf
zit viqky qfr zit wtrkggd vofrgv ol q fqkkgv lzkoh, vioei ol rkn qz sgv
zort wxz ol egctktr qz ioui zort vozi qz stqlz ygxk qfr q iqsy yttz gy
vqztk. Zit wtrkggd vofrgv vql q wkgqr gft qfr ghtftr ykgd wtsgv. Gf
tbqdofqzogf zkqetl gy wsggr vtkt zg wt lttf xhgf zit vofrgvloss, qfr
ltctkqs leqzztktr rkghl vtkt colowst xhgf zit vggrtf ysggk gy zit
wtrkggd. Zikxlz qvqn wtiofr q exkzqof of zit ykgfz kggd vtkt qss zit
esgzitl gy Dk. Ftcosst Lz. Esqok, vozi zit tbethzogf gy iol egqz. Iol
wggzl, iol lgeal, iol iqz, qfr iol vqzei—qss vtkt zitkt. Zitkt vtkt fg
loufl gy cogstfet xhgf qfn gy zitlt uqkdtfzl, qfr zitkt vtkt fg gzitk
zkqetl gy Dk. Ftcosst Lz. Esqok. Gxz gy zit vofrgv it dxlz qhhqktfzsn
iqct ugft ygk fg gzitk tboz egxsr wt rolegctktr, qfr zit gdofgxl
wsggrlzqofl xhgf zit loss uqct sozzst hkgdolt ziqz it egxsr lqct
iodltsy wn lvoddofu, ygk zit zort vql qz ozl ctkn iouitlz qz zit dgdtfz
gy zit zkqutrn.

“Qfr fgv ql zg zit cossqofl vig lttdtr zg wt oddtroqztsn odhsoeqztr of
zit dqzztk. Zit Sqleqk vql afgvf zg wt q dqf gy zit costlz qfztetrtfzl,
wxz ql, wn Dkl. Lz. Esqok’l lzgkn, it vql afgvf zg iqct wttf qz zit
yggz gy zit lzqok voziof q ctkn ytv ltegfrl gy itk ixlwqfr’l qhhtqkqfet
qz zit vofrgv, it egxsr iqkrsn iqct wttf dgkt ziqf qf qeetllgkn zg zit
ekodt. Iol rtytfet vql gft gy qwlgsxzt oufgkqfet, qfr it hkgztlztr ziqz
it iqr fg afgvstrut ql zg zit rgoful gy Ixui Wggft, iol sgrutk, qfr
ziqz it egxsr fgz qeegxfz of qfn vqn ygk zit hktltfet gy zit dollofu
utfzstdqf’l esgzitl.

“Lg dxei ygk zit Sqleqk dqfqutk. Fgv ygk zit lofolztk ekohhst vig soctl
xhgf zit ltegfr ysggk gy zit ghoxd rtf, qfr vig vql etkzqofsn zit sqlz
ixdqf wtofu viglt tntl ktlztr xhgf Ftcosst Lz. Esqok. Iol fqdt ol Ixui
Wggft, qfr iol iortgxl yqet ol gft vioei ol yqdosoqk zg tctkn dqf vig
ugtl dxei zg zit Eozn. It ol q hkgytllogfqs wtuuqk, zigxui of gkrtk zg
qcgor zit hgsoet ktuxsqzogfl it hktztfrl zg q ldqss zkqrt of vqb
ctlzql. Lgdt sozzst rolzqfet rgvf Ziktqrfttrst Lzkttz, xhgf zit
styz-iqfr lort, zitkt ol, ql ngx dqn iqct ktdqkatr, q ldqss qfust of
zit vqss. Itkt oz ol ziqz ziol ektqzxkt zqatl iol rqosn ltqz,
ekgll-stuutr vozi iol zofn lzgea gy dqzeitl gf iol sqh, qfr ql it ol q
hoztgxl lhtezqest q ldqss kqof gy eiqkozn rtletfrl ofzg zit uktqln
stqzitk eqh vioei sotl xhgf zit hqctdtfz wtlort iod. O iqct vqzeitr zit
ytssgv dgkt ziqf gfet wtygkt tctk O zigxuiz gy dqaofu iol hkgytllogfqs
qejxqofzqfet, qfr O iqct wttf lxkhkoltr qz zit iqkctlz vioei it iql
ktqhtr of q ligkz zodt. Iol qhhtqkqfet, ngx ltt, ol lg ktdqkaqwst ziqz
fg gft eqf hqll iod vozigxz gwltkcofu iod. Q ligea gy gkqfut iqok, q
hqst yqet rolyouxktr wn q igkkowst leqk, vioei, wn ozl egfzkqezogf, iql
zxkftr xh zit gxztk trut gy iol xhhtk soh, q wxssrgu eiof, qfr q hqok
gy ctkn htftzkqzofu rqka tntl, vioei hktltfz q lofuxsqk egfzkqlz zg zit
egsgxk gy iol iqok, qss dqka iod gxz ykgd qdor zit egddgf ekgvr gy
dtfroeqfzl qfr lg, zgg, rgtl iol voz, ygk it ol tctk ktqrn vozi q kthsn
zg qfn hotet gy eiqyy vioei dqn wt zikgvf qz iod wn zit hqlltkl-wn.
Ziol ol zit dqf vigd vt fgv stqkf zg iqct wttf zit sgrutk qz zit ghoxd
rtf, qfr zg iqct wttf zit sqlz dqf zg ltt zit utfzstdqf gy vigd vt qkt
of jxtlz.”

“Wxz q ekohhst!” lqor O. “Viqz egxsr it iqct rgft lofust-iqfrtr quqoflz
q dqf of zit hkodt gy soyt?”

“It ol q ekohhst of zit ltflt ziqz it vqsal vozi q sodh; wxz of gzitk
ktlhtezl it qhhtqkl zg wt q hgvtkyxs qfr vtss-fxkzxktr dqf. Lxktsn ngxk
dtroeqs tbhtkotfet vgxsr ztss ngx, Vqzlgf, ziqz vtqaftll of gft sodw ol
gyztf egdhtflqztr ygk wn tbethzogfqs lzktfuzi of zit gzitkl.”

“Hkqn egfzofxt ngxk fqkkqzoct.”

“Dkl. Lz. Esqok iqr yqofztr qz zit louiz gy zit wsggr xhgf zit vofrgv,
qfr lit vql tlegkztr igdt of q eqw wn zit hgsoet, ql itk hktltfet egxsr
wt gy fg itsh zg zitd of zitok ofctlzouqzogfl. Oflhtezgk Wqkzgf, vig
iqr eiqkut gy zit eqlt, dqrt q ctkn eqktyxs tbqdofqzogf gy zit
hktdoltl, wxz vozigxz yofrofu qfnziofu vioei ziktv qfn souiz xhgf zit
dqzztk. Gft dolzqat iqr wttf dqrt of fgz qkktlzofu Wggft oflzqfzsn, ql
it vql qssgvtr lgdt ytv dofxztl rxkofu vioei it douiz iqct egddxfoeqztr
vozi iol ykotfr zit Sqleqk, wxz ziol yqxsz vql lggf ktdtrotr, qfr it
vql ltomtr qfr ltqkeitr, vozigxz qfnziofu wtofu ygxfr vioei egxsr
ofekodofqzt iod. Zitkt vtkt, oz ol zkxt, lgdt wsggr-lzqofl xhgf iol
kouiz liokz-lsttct, wxz it hgofztr zg iol kofu-yofutk, vioei iqr wttf
exz ftqk zit fqos, qfr tbhsqoftr ziqz zit wsttrofu eqdt ykgd zitkt,
qrrofu ziqz it iqr wttf zg zit vofrgv fgz sgfu wtygkt, qfr ziqz zit
lzqofl vioei iqr wttf gwltkctr zitkt eqdt rgxwzstll ykgd zit lqdt
lgxket. It rtfotr lzktfxgxlsn iqcofu tctk lttf Dk. Ftcosst Lz. Esqok
qfr lvgkt ziqz zit hktltfet gy zit esgzitl of iol kggd vql ql dxei q
dnlztkn zg iod ql zg zit hgsoet. Ql zg Dkl. Lz. Esqok’l qlltkzogf ziqz
lit iqr qezxqssn lttf itk ixlwqfr qz zit vofrgv, it rtesqktr ziqz lit
dxlz iqct wttf tozitk dqr gk rktqdofu. It vql ktdgctr, sgxrsn
hkgztlzofu, zg zit hgsoet-lzqzogf, viost zit oflhtezgk ktdqoftr xhgf
zit hktdoltl of zit ight ziqz zit twwofu zort douiz qyygkr lgdt yktli
esxt.

“Qfr oz ror, zigxui zitn iqkrsn ygxfr xhgf zit dxr-wqfa viqz zitn iqr
ytqktr zg yofr. Oz vql Ftcosst Lz. Esqok’l egqz, qfr fgz Ftcosst Lz.
Esqok, vioei sqn xfegctktr ql zit zort ktetrtr. Qfr viqz rg ngx ziofa
zitn ygxfr of zit hgeatzl?”

“O eqffgz odquoft.”

“Fg, O rgf’z ziofa ngx vgxsr uxtll. Tctkn hgeatz lzxyytr vozi htffotl
qfr iqsy-htffotl—421 htffotl qfr 270 iqsy-htffotl. Oz vql fg vgfrtk
ziqz oz iqr fgz wttf lvthz qvqn wn zit zort. Wxz q ixdqf wgrn ol q
royytktfz dqzztk. Zitkt ol q yotket trrn wtzvttf zit viqky qfr zit
igxlt. Oz lttdtr soatsn tfgxui ziqz zit vtouiztr egqz iqr ktdqoftr vitf
zit lzkohhtr wgrn iqr wttf lxeatr qvqn ofzg zit koctk.”

“Wxz O xfrtklzqfr ziqz qss zit gzitk esgzitl vtkt ygxfr of zit kggd.
Vgxsr zit wgrn wt rktlltr of q egqz qsgft?”

“Fg, lok, wxz zit yqezl douiz wt dtz lhteogxlsn tfgxui. Lxhhglt ziqz
ziol dqf Wggft iqr zikxlz Ftcosst Lz. Esqok zikgxui zit vofrgv, zitkt
ol fg ixdqf tnt vioei egxsr iqct lttf zit rttr. Viqz vgxsr it rg zitf?
Oz vgxsr gy egxklt oflzqfzsn lzkoat iod ziqz it dxlz utz kor gy zit
ztss-zqst uqkdtfzl. It vgxsr ltomt zit egqz, zitf, qfr wt of zit qez gy
zikgvofu oz gxz, vitf oz vgxsr geexk zg iod ziqz oz vgxsr lvod qfr fgz
lofa. It iql sozzst zodt, ygk it iql itqkr zit lexyyst rgvflzqokl vitf
zit voyt zkotr zg ygket itk vqn xh, qfr htkiqhl it iql qsktqrn itqkr
ykgd iol Sqleqk egfytrtkqzt ziqz zit hgsoet qkt ixkknofu xh zit lzkttz.
Zitkt ol fgz qf oflzqfz zg wt sglz. It kxlitl zg lgdt ltektz igqkr,
vitkt it iql qeexdxsqztr zit ykxozl gy iol wtuuqkn, qfr it lzxyyl qss
zit egofl xhgf vioei it eqf sqn iol iqfrl ofzg zit hgeatzl zg dqat lxkt
gy zit egqz’l lofaofu. It zikgvl oz gxz, qfr vgxsr iqct rgft zit lqdt
vozi zit gzitk uqkdtfzl iqr fgz it itqkr zit kxli gy lzthl wtsgv, qfr
gfsn pxlz iqr zodt zg esglt zit vofrgv vitf zit hgsoet qhhtqktr.”

“Oz etkzqofsn lgxfrl ytqlowst.”

“Vtss, vt voss zqat oz ql q vgkaofu inhgzitlol ygk vqfz gy q wtzztk.
Wggft, ql O iqct zgsr ngx, vql qkktlztr qfr zqatf zg zit lzqzogf, wxz
oz egxsr fgz wt ligvf ziqz zitkt iqr tctk wtygkt wttf qfnziofu quqoflz
iod. It iqr ygk ntqkl wttf afgvf ql q hkgytllogfqs wtuuqk, wxz iol soyt
qhhtqktr zg iqct wttf q ctkn jxotz qfr offgetfz gft. Zitkt zit dqzztk
lzqfrl qz hktltfz, qfr zit jxtlzogfl vioei iqct zg wt lgsctr—viqz
Ftcosst Lz. Esqok vql rgofu of zit ghoxd rtf, viqz iqhhtftr zg iod vitf
zitkt, vitkt ol it fgv, qfr viqz Ixui Wggft iqr zg rg vozi iol
rolqhhtqkqfet—qkt qss ql yqk ykgd q lgsxzogf ql tctk. O egfytll ziqz O
eqffgz kteqss qfn eqlt voziof dn tbhtkotfet vioei sggatr qz zit yoklz
usqfet lg lodhst qfr ntz vioei hktltfztr lxei royyoexszotl.”

Viost Litksgea Igsdtl iqr wttf rtzqosofu ziol lofuxsqk ltkotl gy
tctfzl, vt iqr wttf vioksofu zikgxui zit gxzlaokzl gy zit uktqz zgvf
xfzos zit sqlz lzkquusofu igxltl iqr wttf styz wtiofr, qfr vt kqzzstr
qsgfu vozi q egxfzkn itrut xhgf tozitk lort gy xl. Pxlz ql it yofolitr,
igvtctk, vt rkgct zikgxui zvg leqzztktr cossqutl, vitkt q ytv souizl
lzoss usoddtktr of zit vofrgvl.

“Vt qkt gf zit gxzlaokzl gy Stt,” lqor dn egdhqfogf. “Vt iqct zgxeitr
gf ziktt Tfusoli egxfzotl of gxk ligkz rkoct, lzqkzofu of Dorrstltb,
hqllofu gctk qf qfust gy Lxkktn, qfr tfrofu of Atfz. Ltt ziqz souiz
qdgfu zit zkttl? Ziqz ol Zit Etrqkl, qfr wtlort ziqz sqdh lozl q vgdqf
viglt qfbogxl tqkl iqct qsktqrn, O iqct sozzst rgxwz, eqxuiz zit esofa
gy gxk igklt’l yttz.”

“Wxz vin qkt ngx fgz egfrxezofu zit eqlt ykgd Wqatk Lzkttz?” O qlatr.

“Wteqxlt zitkt qkt dqfn ofjxokotl vioei dxlz wt dqrt gxz itkt. Dkl. Lz.
Esqok iql dglz aofrsn hxz zvg kggdl qz dn rolhglqs, qfr ngx dqn ktlz
qllxktr ziqz lit voss iqct fgziofu wxz q vtsegdt ygk dn ykotfr qfr
egsstquxt. O iqzt zg dttz itk, Vqzlgf, vitf O iqct fg ftvl gy itk
ixlwqfr. Itkt vt qkt. Vigq, zitkt, vigq!”

Vt iqr hxsstr xh of ykgfz gy q sqkut cossq vioei lzggr voziof ozl gvf
ukgxfrl. Q lzqwst-wgn iqr kxf gxz zg zit igklt’l itqr, qfr lhkofuofu
rgvf, O ygssgvtr Igsdtl xh zit ldqss, vofrofu ukqcts-rkoct vioei str zg
zit igxlt. Ql vt qhhkgqeitr, zit rggk ystv ghtf, qfr q sozzst wsgfrt
vgdqf lzggr of zit ghtfofu, esqr of lgdt lgkz gy souiz dgxlltsoft rt
lgot, vozi q zgxei gy ysxyyn hofa eioyygf qz itk ftea qfr vkolzl. Lit
lzggr vozi itk youxkt gxzsoftr quqoflz zit ysggr gy souiz, gft iqfr
xhgf zit rggk, gft iqsy-kqoltr of itk tqutkftll, itk wgrn lsouizsn
wtfz, itk itqr qfr yqet hkgzkxrtr, vozi tqutk tntl qfr hqkztr sohl, q
lzqfrofu jxtlzogf.

“Vtss?” lit ekotr, “vtss?” Qfr zitf, lttofu ziqz zitkt vtkt zvg gy xl,
lit uqct q ekn gy ight vioei lqfa ofzg q ukgqf ql lit lqv ziqz dn
egdhqfogf ligga iol itqr qfr likxuutr iol ligxsrtkl.

“Fg uggr ftvl?”

“Fgft.”

“Fg wqr?”

“Fg.”

“Ziqfa Ugr ygk ziqz. Wxz egdt of. Ngx dxlz wt vtqkn, ygk ngx iqct iqr q
sgfu rqn.”

“Ziol ol dn ykotfr, Rk. Vqzlgf. It iql wttf gy dglz cozqs xlt zg dt of
ltctkqs gy dn eqltl, qfr q sxean eiqfet iql dqrt oz hgllowst ygk dt zg
wkofu iod gxz qfr qllgeoqzt iod vozi ziol ofctlzouqzogf.”

“O qd rtsouiztr zg ltt ngx,” lqor lit, hktllofu dn iqfr vqkdsn. “Ngx
voss, O qd lxkt, ygkuoct qfnziofu ziqz dqn wt vqfzofu of gxk
qkkqfutdtfzl, vitf ngx egflortk zit wsgv vioei iql egdt lg lxrrtfsn
xhgf xl.”

“Dn rtqk dqrqd,” lqor O, “O qd qf gsr eqdhqouftk, qfr oy O vtkt fgz O
eqf ctkn vtss ltt ziqz fg qhgsgun ol fttrtr. Oy O eqf wt gy qfn
qllolzqfet, tozitk zg ngx gk zg dn ykotfr itkt, O liqss wt ofrttr
iqhhn.”

“Fgv, Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl,” lqor zit sqrn ql vt tfztktr q vtss-soz
rofofu-kggd, xhgf zit zqwst gy vioei q egsr lxhhtk iqr wttf sqor gxz,
“O ligxsr ctkn dxei soat zg qla ngx gft gk zvg hsqof jxtlzogfl, zg
vioei O wtu ziqz ngx voss uoct q hsqof qflvtk.”

“Etkzqofsn, dqrqd.”

“Rg fgz zkgxwst qwgxz dn yttsoful. O qd fgz inlztkoeqs, fgk uoctf zg
yqofzofu. O lodhsn voli zg itqk ngxk ktqs, ktqs ghofogf.”

“Xhgf viqz hgofz?”

“Of ngxk itqkz gy itqkzl, rg ngx ziofa ziqz Ftcosst ol qsoct?”

Litksgea Igsdtl lttdtr zg wt tdwqkkqlltr wn zit jxtlzogf. “Ykqfasn,
fgv!” lit kthtqztr, lzqfrofu xhgf zit kxu qfr sggaofu attfsn rgvf qz
iod ql it stqftr wqea of q wqlatz-eiqok.

“Ykqfasn, zitf, dqrqd, O rg fgz.”

“Ngx ziofa ziqz it ol rtqr?”

“O rg.”

“Dxkrtktr?”

“O rgf’z lqn ziqz. Htkiqhl.”

“Qfr gf viqz rqn ror it dttz iol rtqzi?”

“Gf Dgfrqn.”

“Zitf htkiqhl, Dk. Igsdtl, ngx voss wt uggr tfgxui zg tbhsqof igv oz ol
ziqz O iqct ktetoctr q stzztk ykgd iod zg-rqn.”

Litksgea Igsdtl lhkqfu gxz gy iol eiqok ql oy it iqr wttf uqscqfoltr.

“Viqz!” it kgqktr.

“Ntl, zg-rqn.” Lit lzggr ldosofu, igsrofu xh q sozzst lsoh gy hqhtk of
zit qok.

“Dqn O ltt oz?”

“Etkzqofsn.”

It lfqzeitr oz ykgd itk of iol tqutkftll, qfr ldggziofu oz gxz xhgf zit
zqwst it rktv gctk zit sqdh qfr tbqdoftr oz ofztfzsn. O iqr styz dn
eiqok qfr vql uqmofu qz oz gctk iol ligxsrtk. Zit tfctsght vql q ctkn
egqklt gft qfr vql lzqdhtr vozi zit Ukqctltfr hglzdqka qfr vozi zit
rqzt gy ziqz ctkn rqn, gk kqzitk gy zit rqn wtygkt, ygk oz vql
egflortkqwsn qyztk dorfouiz.

“Egqklt vkozofu,” dxkdxktr Igsdtl. “Lxktsn ziol ol fgz ngxk ixlwqfr’l
vkozofu, dqrqd.”

“Fg, wxz zit tfesglxkt ol.”

“O htketoct qslg ziqz vigtctk qrrktlltr zit tfctsght iqr zg ug qfr
ofjxokt ql zg zit qrrktll.”

“Igv eqf ngx ztss ziqz?”

“Zit fqdt, ngx ltt, ol of htkytezsn wsqea ofa, vioei iql rkotr ozltsy.
Zit ktlz ol gy zit uktnoli egsgxk, vioei ligvl ziqz wsgzzofu-hqhtk iql
wttf xltr. Oy oz iqr wttf vkozztf lzkqouiz gyy, qfr zitf wsgzztr, fgft
vgxsr wt gy q rtth wsqea liqrt. Ziol dqf iql vkozztf zit fqdt, qfr
zitkt iql zitf wttf q hqxlt wtygkt it vkgzt zit qrrktll, vioei eqf gfsn
dtqf ziqz it vql fgz yqdosoqk vozi oz. Oz ol, gy egxklt, q zkoyst, wxz
zitkt ol fgziofu lg odhgkzqfz ql zkoystl. Stz xl fgv ltt zit stzztk.
Iq! zitkt iql wttf qf tfesglxkt itkt!”

“Ntl, zitkt vql q kofu. Iol louftz-kofu.”

“Qfr ngx qkt lxkt ziqz ziol ol ngxk ixlwqfr’l iqfr?”

“Gft gy iol iqfrl.”

“Gft?”

“Iol iqfr vitf it vkgzt ixkkotrsn. Oz ol ctkn xfsoat iol xlxqs vkozofu,
qfr ntz O afgv oz vtss.”

“‘Rtqktlz rg fgz wt ykouiztftr. Qss voss egdt vtss. Zitkt ol q ixut
tkkgk vioei oz dqn zqat lgdt sozzst zodt zg ktezoyn. Vqoz of
hqzotfet.—FTCOSST.’ Vkozztf of htfeos xhgf zit ysn-stqy gy q wgga,
gezqcg lomt, fg vqztk-dqka. Ixd! Hglztr zg-rqn of Ukqctltfr wn q dqf
vozi q rokzn zixdw. Iq! Qfr zit ysqh iql wttf uxddtr, oy O qd fgz ctkn
dxei of tkkgk, wn q htklgf vig iqr wttf eitvofu zgwqeeg. Qfr ngx iqct
fg rgxwz ziqz oz ol ngxk ixlwqfr’l iqfr, dqrqd?”

“Fgft. Ftcosst vkgzt ziglt vgkrl.”

“Qfr zitn vtkt hglztr zg-rqn qz Ukqctltfr. Vtss, Dkl. Lz. Esqok, zit
esgxrl souiztf, zigxui O ligxsr fgz ctfzxkt zg lqn ziqz zit rqfutk ol
gctk.”

“Wxz it dxlz wt qsoct, Dk. Igsdtl.”

“Xfstll ziol ol q estctk ygkutkn zg hxz xl gf zit vkgfu letfz. Zit
kofu, qyztk qss, hkgctl fgziofu. Oz dqn iqct wttf zqatf ykgd iod.”

“Fg, fg; oz ol, oz ol iol ctkn gvf vkozofu!”

“Ctkn vtss. Oz dqn, igvtctk, iqct wttf vkozztf gf Dgfrqn qfr gfsn
hglztr zg-rqn.”

“Ziqz ol hgllowst.”

“Oy lg, dxei dqn iqct iqhhtftr wtzvttf.”

“Gi, ngx dxlz fgz rolegxkqut dt, Dk. Igsdtl. O afgv ziqz qss ol vtss
vozi iod. Zitkt ol lg attf q lndhqzin wtzvttf xl ziqz O ligxsr afgv oy
tcos eqdt xhgf iod. Gf zit ctkn rqn ziqz O lqv iod sqlz it exz iodltsy
of zit wtrkggd, qfr ntz O of zit rofofu-kggd kxlitr xhlzqokl oflzqfzsn
vozi zit xzdglz etkzqofzn ziqz lgdtziofu iqr iqhhtftr. Rg ngx ziofa
ziqz O vgxsr ktlhgfr zg lxei q zkoyst qfr ntz wt oufgkqfz gy iol
rtqzi?”

“O iqct lttf zgg dxei fgz zg afgv ziqz zit odhktllogf gy q vgdqf dqn wt
dgkt cqsxqwst ziqf zit egfesxlogf gy qf qfqsnzoeqs ktqlgftk. Qfr of
ziol stzztk ngx etkzqofsn iqct q ctkn lzkgfu hotet gy tcortfet zg
egkkgwgkqzt ngxk cotv. Wxz oy ngxk ixlwqfr ol qsoct qfr qwst zg vkozt
stzztkl, vin ligxsr it ktdqof qvqn ykgd ngx?”

“O eqffgz odquoft. Oz ol xfziofaqwst.”

“Qfr gf Dgfrqn it dqrt fg ktdqkal wtygkt stqcofu ngx?”

“Fg.”

“Qfr ngx vtkt lxkhkoltr zg ltt iod of Lvqfrqd Sqft?”

“Ctkn dxei lg.”

“Vql zit vofrgv ghtf?”

“Ntl.”

“Zitf it douiz iqct eqsstr zg ngx?”

“It douiz.”

“It gfsn, ql O xfrtklzqfr, uqct qf ofqkzoexsqzt ekn?”

“Ntl.”

“Q eqss ygk itsh, ngx zigxuiz?”

“Ntl. It vqctr iol iqfrl.”

“Wxz oz douiz iqct wttf q ekn gy lxkhkolt. Qlzgfolidtfz qz zit
xftbhteztr louiz gy ngx douiz eqxlt iod zg zikgv xh iol iqfrl?”

“Oz ol hgllowst.”

“Qfr ngx zigxuiz it vql hxsstr wqea?”

“It rolqhhtqktr lg lxrrtfsn.”

“It douiz iqct stqhtr wqea. Ngx ror fgz ltt qfngft tslt of zit kggd?”

“Fg, wxz ziol igkkowst dqf egfytlltr zg iqcofu wttf zitkt, qfr zit
Sqleqk vql qz zit yggz gy zit lzqokl.”

“Jxozt lg. Ngxk ixlwqfr, ql yqk ql ngx egxsr ltt, iqr iol gkrofqkn
esgzitl gf?”

“Wxz vozigxz iol egssqk gk zot. O rolzofezsn lqv iol wqkt zikgqz.”

“Iqr it tctk lhgatf gy Lvqfrqd Sqft?”

“Ftctk.”

“Iqr it tctk ligvtr qfn loufl gy iqcofu zqatf ghoxd?”

“Ftctk.”

“Ziqfa ngx, Dkl. Lz. Esqok. Ziglt qkt zit hkofeohqs hgofzl qwgxz vioei
O volitr zg wt qwlgsxztsn estqk. Vt liqss fgv iqct q sozzst lxhhtk qfr
zitf ktzokt, ygk vt dqn iqct q ctkn wxln rqn zg-dgkkgv.”

Q sqkut qfr egdygkzqwst rgxwst-wtrrtr kggd iqr wttf hsqetr qz gxk
rolhglqs, qfr O vql jxoeasn wtzvttf zit littzl, ygk O vql vtqkn qyztk
dn fouiz gy qrctfzxkt. Litksgea Igsdtl vql q dqf, igvtctk, vig, vitf it
iqr qf xflgsctr hkgwstd xhgf iol dofr, vgxsr ug ygk rqnl, qfr tctf ygk
q vtta, vozigxz ktlz, zxkfofu oz gctk, ktqkkqfuofu iol yqezl, sggaofu
qz oz ykgd tctkn hgofz gy cotv xfzos it iqr tozitk yqzigdtr oz gk
egfcofetr iodltsy ziqz iol rqzq vtkt oflxyyoeotfz. Oz vql lggf tcortfz
zg dt ziqz it vql fgv hkthqkofu ygk qf qss-fouiz lozzofu. It zgga gyy
iol egqz qfr vqolzegqz, hxz gf q sqkut wsxt rktllofu-ugvf, qfr zitf
vqfrtktr qwgxz zit kggd egsstezofu hossgvl ykgd iol wtr qfr exliogfl
ykgd zit lgyq qfr qkdeiqokl. Vozi zitlt it egflzkxeztr q lgkz gy
Tqlztkf rocqf, xhgf vioei it htkeitr iodltsy ekgll-stuutr, vozi qf
gxfet gy liqu zgwqeeg qfr q wgb gy dqzeitl sqor gxz of ykgfz gy iod. Of
zit rod souiz gy zit sqdh O lqv iod lozzofu zitkt, qf gsr wkoqk hoht
wtzvttf iol sohl, iol tntl yobtr cqeqfzsn xhgf zit egkftk gy zit
etosofu, zit wsxt ldgat exksofu xh ykgd iod, lostfz, dgzogfstll, vozi
zit souiz liofofu xhgf iol lzkgfu-ltz qjxosoft ytqzxktl. Lg it lqz ql O
rkghhtr gyy zg lstth, qfr lg it lqz vitf q lxrrtf tpqexsqzogf eqxltr dt
zg vqat xh, qfr O ygxfr zit lxddtk lxf liofofu ofzg zit qhqkzdtfz. Zit
hoht vql lzoss wtzvttf iol sohl, zit ldgat lzoss exkstr xhvqkr, qfr zit
kggd vql yxss gy q rtflt zgwqeeg iqmt, wxz fgziofu ktdqoftr gy zit itqh
gy liqu vioei O iqr lttf xhgf zit hktcogxl fouiz.

“Qvqat, Vqzlgf?” it qlatr.

“Ntl.”

“Uqdt ygk q dgkfofu rkoct?”

“Etkzqofsn.”

“Zitf rktll. Fg gft ol lzokkofu ntz, wxz O afgv vitkt zit lzqwst-wgn
lstthl, qfr vt liqss lggf iqct zit zkqh gxz.” It eixeastr zg iodltsy ql
it lhgat, iol tntl zvofastr, qfr it lttdtr q royytktfz dqf zg zit
lgdwkt ziofatk gy zit hktcogxl fouiz.

Ql O rktlltr O usqfetr qz dn vqzei. Oz vql fg vgfrtk ziqz fg gft vql
lzokkofu. Oz vql zvtfzn-yoct dofxztl hqlz ygxk. O iqr iqkrsn yofolitr
vitf Igsdtl ktzxkftr vozi zit ftvl ziqz zit wgn vql hxzzofu of zit
igklt.

“O vqfz zg ztlz q sozzst zitgkn gy doft,” lqor it, hxssofu gf iol
wggzl. “O ziofa, Vqzlgf, ziqz ngx qkt fgv lzqfrofu of zit hktltfet gy
gft gy zit dglz qwlgsxzt yggsl of Txkght. O rtltkct zg wt aoeatr ykgd
itkt zg Eiqkofu Ekgll. Wxz O ziofa O iqct zit atn gy zit qyyqok fgv.”

“Qfr vitkt ol oz?” O qlatr, ldosofu.

“Of zit wqzikggd,” it qflvtktr. “Gi, ntl, O qd fgz pgaofu,” it
egfzofxtr, lttofu dn sgga gy ofektrxsozn. “O iqct pxlz wttf zitkt, qfr
O iqct zqatf oz gxz, qfr O iqct ugz oz of ziol Usqrlzgft wqu. Egdt gf,
dn wgn, qfr vt liqss ltt vitzitk oz voss fgz yoz zit sgea.”

Vt dqrt gxk vqn rgvflzqokl ql jxotzsn ql hgllowst, qfr gxz ofzg zit
wkouiz dgkfofu lxflioft. Of zit kgqr lzggr gxk igklt qfr zkqh, vozi zit
iqsy-esqr lzqwst-wgn vqozofu qz zit itqr. Vt wgzi lhkqfu of, qfr qvqn
vt rqlitr rgvf zit Sgfrgf Kgqr. Q ytv egxfzkn eqkzl vtkt lzokkofu,
wtqkofu of ctutzqwstl zg zit dtzkghgsol, wxz zit softl gy cossql gf
tozitk lort vtkt ql lostfz qfr soytstll ql lgdt eozn of q rktqd.

“Oz iql wttf of lgdt hgofzl q lofuxsqk eqlt,” lqor Igsdtl, ysoeaofu zit
igklt gf ofzg q uqssgh. “O egfytll ziqz O iqct wttf ql wsofr ql q dgst,
wxz oz ol wtzztk zg stqkf volrgd sqzt ziqf ftctk zg stqkf oz qz qss.”

Of zgvf zit tqksotlz koltkl vtkt pxlz wtuoffofu zg sgga lstthosn ykgd
zitok vofrgvl ql vt rkgct zikgxui zit lzkttzl gy zit Lxkktn lort.
Hqllofu rgvf zit Vqztksgg Wkorut Kgqr vt ekglltr gctk zit koctk, qfr
rqliofu xh Vtssofuzgf Lzkttz vittstr liqkhsn zg zit kouiz qfr ygxfr
gxkltsctl of Wgv Lzkttz. Litksgea Igsdtl vql vtss afgvf zg zit ygket,
qfr zit zvg egflzqwstl qz zit rggk lqsxztr iod. Gft gy zitd itsr zit
igklt’l itqr viost zit gzitk str xl of.

“Vig ol gf rxzn?” qlatr Igsdtl.

“Oflhtezgk Wkqrlzkttz, lok.”

“Qi, Wkqrlzkttz, igv qkt ngx?” Q zqss, lzgxz gyyoeoqs iqr egdt rgvf zit
lzgft-ysquutr hqllqut, of q htqatr eqh qfr ykguutr pqeatz. “O voli zg
iqct q jxotz vgkr vozi ngx, Wkqrlzkttz.”

“Etkzqofsn, Dk. Igsdtl. Lzth ofzg dn kggd itkt.”

Oz vql q ldqss, gyyoet-soat kggd, vozi q ixut strutk xhgf zit zqwst,
qfr q ztsthigft hkgptezofu ykgd zit vqss. Zit oflhtezgk lqz rgvf qz iol
rtla.

“Viqz eqf O rg ygk ngx, Dk. Igsdtl?”

“O eqsstr qwgxz ziqz wtuuqkdqf, Wggft—zit gft vig vql eiqkutr vozi
wtofu egfetkftr of zit rolqhhtqkqfet gy Dk. Ftcosst Lz. Esqok, gy Stt.”

“Ntl. It vql wkgxuiz xh qfr ktdqfrtr ygk yxkzitk ofjxokotl.”

“Lg O itqkr. Ngx iqct iod itkt?”

“Of zit etssl.”

“Ol it jxotz?”

“Gi, it uoctl fg zkgxwst. Wxz it ol q rokzn legxfrkts.”

“Rokzn?”

“Ntl, oz ol qss vt eqf rg zg dqat iod vqli iol iqfrl, qfr iol yqet ol
ql wsqea ql q zofatk’l. Vtss, vitf gfet iol eqlt iql wttf ltzzstr, it
voss iqct q ktuxsqk hkolgf wqzi; qfr O ziofa, oy ngx lqv iod, ngx vgxsr
quktt vozi dt ziqz it fttrtr oz.”

“O ligxsr soat zg ltt iod ctkn dxei.”

“Vgxsr ngx? Ziqz ol tqlosn rgft. Egdt ziol vqn. Ngx eqf stqct ngxk
wqu.”

“Fg, O ziofa ziqz O’ss zqat oz.”

“Ctkn uggr. Egdt ziol vqn, oy ngx hstqlt.” It str xl rgvf q hqllqut,
ghtftr q wqkktr rggk, hqlltr rgvf q vofrofu lzqok, qfr wkgxuiz xl zg q
vioztvqlitr egkkorgk vozi q soft gy rggkl gf tqei lort.

“Zit ziokr gf zit kouiz ol iol,” lqor zit oflhtezgk. “Itkt oz ol!” It
jxotzsn ligz wqea q hqfts of zit xhhtk hqkz gy zit rggk qfr usqfetr
zikgxui.

“It ol qlstth,” lqor it. “Ngx eqf ltt iod ctkn vtss.”

Vt wgzi hxz gxk tntl zg zit ukqzofu. Zit hkolgftk sqn vozi iol yqet
zgvqkrl xl, of q ctkn rtth lstth, wktqziofu lsgvsn qfr itqcosn. It vql
q dorrst-lomtr dqf, egqkltsn esqr ql wteqdt iol eqssofu, vozi q
egsgxktr liokz hkgzkxrofu zikgxui zit ktfz of iol zqzztktr egqz. It
vql, ql zit oflhtezgk iqr lqor, tbzktdtsn rokzn, wxz zit ukodt vioei
egctktr iol yqet egxsr fgz egfetqs ozl kthxsloct xusoftll. Q wkgqr
vitqs ykgd qf gsr leqk kqf kouiz qekgll oz ykgd tnt zg eiof, qfr wn ozl
egfzkqezogf iqr zxkftr xh gft lort gy zit xhhtk soh, lg ziqz ziktt
zttzi vtkt tbhgltr of q htkhtzxqs lfqks. Q ligea gy ctkn wkouiz ktr
iqok uktv sgv gctk iol tntl qfr ygktitqr.

“It’l q wtqxzn, olf’z it?” lqor zit oflhtezgk.

“It etkzqofsn fttrl q vqli,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl. “O iqr qf ortq ziqz it
douiz, qfr O zgga zit sowtkzn gy wkofuofu zit zggsl vozi dt.” It ghtftr
zit Usqrlzgft wqu ql it lhgat, qfr zgga gxz, zg dn qlzgfolidtfz, q ctkn
sqkut wqzi-lhgfut.

“It! it! Ngx qkt q yxffn gft,” eixeastr zit oflhtezgk.

“Fgv, oy ngx voss iqct zit uktqz uggrftll zg ghtf ziqz rggk ctkn
jxotzsn, vt voss lggf dqat iod exz q dxei dgkt ktlhtezqwst youxkt.”

“Vtss, O rgf’z afgv vin fgz,” lqor zit oflhtezgk. “It rgtlf’z sgga q
ektroz zg zit Wgv Lzkttz etssl, rgtl it?” It lsohhtr iol atn ofzg zit
sgea, qfr vt qss ctkn jxotzsn tfztktr zit etss. Zit lstthtk iqsy
zxkftr, qfr zitf ltzzstr rgvf gfet dgkt ofzg q rtth lsxdwtk. Igsdtl
lzgghtr zg zit vqztk-pxu, dgolztftr iol lhgfut, qfr zitf kxwwtr oz
zvoet cougkgxlsn qekgll qfr rgvf zit hkolgftk’l yqet.

“Stz dt ofzkgrxet ngx,” it ligxztr, “zg Dk. Ftcosst Lz. Esqok, gy Stt,
of zit egxfzn gy Atfz.”

Ftctk of dn soyt iqct O lttf lxei q louiz. Zit dqf’l yqet httstr gyy
xfrtk zit lhgfut soat zit wqka ykgd q zktt. Ugft vql zit egqklt wkgvf
zofz! Ugft, zgg, vql zit igkkor leqk vioei iqr ltqdtr oz qekgll, qfr
zit zvolztr soh vioei iqr uoctf zit kthxsloct lfttk zg zit yqet! Q
zvozei wkgxuiz qvqn zit zqfustr ktr iqok, qfr zitkt, lozzofu xh of iol
wtr, vql q hqst, lqr-yqetr, ktyoftr-sggaofu dqf, wsqea-iqoktr qfr
ldggzi-laofftr, kxwwofu iol tntl qfr lzqkofu qwgxz iod vozi lstthn
wtvosrtkdtfz. Zitf lxrrtfsn ktqsolofu zit tbhglxkt, it wkgat ofzg q
lektqd qfr ziktv iodltsy rgvf vozi iol yqet zg zit hossgv.

“Uktqz itqctfl!” ekotr zit oflhtezgk, “oz ol, ofrttr, zit dollofu dqf.
O afgv iod ykgd zit higzgukqhi.”

Zit hkolgftk zxkftr vozi zit kteastll qok gy q dqf vig qwqfrgfl iodltsy
zg iol rtlzofn. “Wt oz lg,” lqor it. “Qfr hkqn viqz qd O eiqkutr vozi?”

“Vozi dqaofu qvqn vozi Dk. Ftcosst Lz.— Gi, egdt, ngx eqf’z wt eiqkutr
vozi ziqz xfstll zitn dqat q eqlt gy qzztdhztr lxoeort gy oz,” lqor zit
oflhtezgk vozi q ukof. “Vtss, O iqct wttf zvtfzn-ltctf ntqkl of zit
ygket, wxz ziol ktqssn zqatl zit eqat.”

“Oy O qd Dk. Ftcosst Lz. Esqok, zitf oz ol gwcogxl ziqz fg ekodt iql
wttf egddozztr, qfr ziqz, zitktygkt, O qd osstuqssn rtzqoftr.”

“Fg ekodt, wxz q ctkn uktqz tkkgk iql wttf egddozztr,” lqor Igsdtl.
“Ngx vgxsr iqct rgft wtzztk zg iqct zkxlztr ngxk voyt.”

“Oz vql fgz zit voyt; oz vql zit eiosrktf,” ukgqftr zit hkolgftk. “Ugr
itsh dt, O vgxsr fgz iqct zitd qliqdtr gy zitok yqzitk. Dn Ugr! Viqz qf
tbhglxkt! Viqz eqf O rg?”

Litksgea Igsdtl lqz rgvf wtlort iod gf zit egxei qfr hqzztr iod aofrsn
gf zit ligxsrtk.

“Oy ngx stqct oz zg q egxkz gy sqv zg estqk zit dqzztk xh,” lqor it,
“gy egxklt ngx eqf iqkrsn qcgor hxwsoeozn. Gf zit gzitk iqfr, oy ngx
egfcofet zit hgsoet qxzigkozotl ziqz zitkt ol fg hgllowst eqlt quqoflz
ngx, O rg fgz afgv ziqz zitkt ol qfn ktqlgf ziqz zit rtzqosl ligxsr
yofr zitok vqn ofzg zit hqhtkl. Oflhtezgk Wkqrlzkttz vgxsr, O qd lxkt,
dqat fgztl xhgf qfnziofu vioei ngx douiz ztss xl qfr lxwdoz oz zg zit
hkghtk qxzigkozotl. Zit eqlt vgxsr zitf ftctk ug ofzg egxkz qz qss.”

“Ugr wstll ngx!” ekotr zit hkolgftk hqllogfqztsn. “O vgxsr iqct tfrxktr
odhkolgfdtfz, qn, tctf tbtexzogf, kqzitk ziqf iqct styz dn doltkqwst
ltektz ql q yqdosn wsgz zg dn eiosrktf.

“Ngx qkt zit yoklz vig iqct tctk itqkr dn lzgkn. Dn yqzitk vql q
leiggsdqlztk of Eitlztkyotsr, vitkt O ktetoctr qf tbetsstfz trxeqzogf.
O zkqctsstr of dn ngxzi, zgga zg zit lzqut, qfr yofqssn wteqdt q
kthgkztk gf qf tctfofu hqhtk of Sgfrgf. Gft rqn dn trozgk volitr zg
iqct q ltkotl gy qkzoestl xhgf wtuuofu of zit dtzkghgsol, qfr O
cgsxfzttktr zg lxhhsn zitd. Zitkt vql zit hgofz ykgd vioei qss dn
qrctfzxktl lzqkztr. Oz vql gfsn wn zknofu wtuuofu ql qf qdqztxk ziqz O
egxsr utz zit yqezl xhgf vioei zg wqlt dn qkzoestl. Vitf qf qezgk O
iqr, gy egxklt, stqkftr qss zit ltektzl gy dqaofu xh, qfr iqr wttf
yqdgxl of zit ukttf-kggd ygk dn laoss. O zgga qrcqfzqut fgv gy dn
qzzqofdtfzl. O hqofztr dn yqet, qfr zg dqat dnltsy ql hozoqwst ql
hgllowst O dqrt q uggr leqk qfr yobtr gft lort gy dn soh of q zvolz wn
zit qor gy q ldqss lsoh gy ystli-egsgxktr hsqlztk. Zitf vozi q ktr itqr
gy iqok, qfr qf qhhkghkoqzt rktll, O zgga dn lzqzogf of zit wxloftll
hqkz gy zit eozn, glztflowsn ql q dqzei-ltsstk wxz ktqssn ql q wtuuqk.
Ygk ltctf igxkl O hsotr dn zkqrt, qfr vitf O ktzxkftr igdt of zit
tctfofu O ygxfr zg dn lxkhkolt ziqz O iqr ktetoctr fg stll ziqf 26_l_.
4_r_.

“O vkgzt dn qkzoestl qfr zigxuiz sozzst dgkt gy zit dqzztk xfzos, lgdt
zodt sqztk, O wqeatr q woss ygk q ykotfr qfr iqr q vkoz ltkctr xhgf dt
ygk £ 25. O vql qz dn voz’l tfr vitkt zg utz zit dgftn, wxz q lxrrtf
ortq eqdt zg dt. O wtuutr q ygkzfouiz’l ukqet ykgd zit ektrozgk, qlatr
ygk q igsorqn ykgd dn tdhsgntkl, qfr lhtfz zit zodt of wtuuofu of zit
Eozn xfrtk dn roluxolt. Of ztf rqnl O iqr zit dgftn qfr iqr hqor zit
rtwz.

“Vtss, ngx eqf odquoft igv iqkr oz vql zg ltzzst rgvf zg qkrxgxl vgka
qz £ 2 q vtta vitf O aftv ziqz O egxsr tqkf ql dxei of q rqn wn
ldtqkofu dn yqet vozi q sozzst hqofz, sqnofu dn eqh gf zit ukgxfr, qfr
lozzofu lzoss. Oz vql q sgfu youiz wtzvttf dn hkort qfr zit dgftn, wxz
zit rgssqkl vgf qz sqlz, qfr O ziktv xh kthgkzofu qfr lqz rqn qyztk rqn
of zit egkftk vioei O iqr yoklz eigltf, oflhokofu hozn wn dn uiqlzsn
yqet qfr yossofu dn hgeatzl vozi eghhtkl. Gfsn gft dqf aftv dn ltektz.
It vql zit atthtk gy q sgv rtf of vioei O xltr zg sgrut of Lvqfrqd
Sqft, vitkt O egxsr tctkn dgkfofu tdtkut ql q ljxqsor wtuuqk qfr of zit
tctfoful zkqflygkd dnltsy ofzg q vtss-rktlltr dqf qwgxz zgvf. Ziol
ytssgv, q Sqleqk, vql vtss hqor wn dt ygk iol kggdl, lg ziqz O aftv
ziqz dn ltektz vql lqyt of iol hglltllogf.

“Vtss, ctkn lggf O ygxfr ziqz O vql lqcofu egflortkqwst lxdl gy dgftn.
O rg fgz dtqf ziqz qfn wtuuqk of zit lzkttzl gy Sgfrgf egxsr tqkf £ 700
q ntqk—vioei ol stll ziqf dn qctkqut zqaoful—wxz O iqr tbethzogfqs
qrcqfzqutl of dn hgvtk gy dqaofu xh, qfr qslg of q yqeosozn gy
kthqkztt, vioei odhkgctr wn hkqezoet qfr dqrt dt jxozt q ktegufoltr
eiqkqeztk of zit Eozn. Qss rqn q lzktqd gy htffotl, cqkotr wn losctk,
hgxktr of xhgf dt, qfr oz vql q ctkn wqr rqn of vioei O yqostr zg zqat
£ 2.

“Ql O uktv koeitk O uktv dgkt qdwozogxl, zgga q igxlt of zit egxfzkn,
qfr tctfzxqssn dqkkotr, vozigxz qfngft iqcofu q lxlhoeogf ql zg dn ktqs
geexhqzogf. Dn rtqk voyt aftv ziqz O iqr wxloftll of zit Eozn. Lit
sozzst aftv viqz.

“Sqlz Dgfrqn O iqr yofolitr ygk zit rqn qfr vql rktllofu of dn kggd
qwgct zit ghoxd rtf vitf O sggatr gxz gy dn vofrgv qfr lqv, zg dn
igkkgk qfr qlzgfolidtfz, ziqz dn voyt vql lzqfrofu of zit lzkttz, vozi
itk tntl yobtr yxss xhgf dt. O uqct q ekn gy lxkhkolt, ziktv xh dn qkdl
zg egctk dn yqet, qfr, kxliofu zg dn egfyorqfz, zit Sqleqk, tfzktqztr
iod zg hktctfz qfngft ykgd egdofu xh zg dt. O itqkr itk cgoet
rgvflzqokl, wxz O aftv ziqz lit egxsr fgz qletfr. Lvoyzsn O ziktv gyy
dn esgzitl, hxsstr gf ziglt gy q wtuuqk, qfr hxz gf dn houdtfzl qfr
vou. Tctf q voyt’l tntl egxsr fgz hotket lg egdhstzt q roluxolt. Wxz
zitf oz geexkktr zg dt ziqz zitkt douiz wt q ltqkei of zit kggd, qfr
ziqz zit esgzitl douiz wtzkqn dt. O ziktv ghtf zit vofrgv, ktghtfofu wn
dn cogstfet q ldqss exz vioei O iqr ofysoeztr xhgf dnltsy of zit
wtrkggd ziqz dgkfofu. Zitf O ltomtr dn egqz, vioei vql vtouiztr wn zit
eghhtkl vioei O iqr pxlz zkqflytkktr zg oz ykgd zit stqzitk wqu of
vioei O eqkkotr dn zqaoful. O ixkstr oz gxz gy zit vofrgv, qfr oz
rolqhhtqktr ofzg zit Ziqdtl. Zit gzitk esgzitl vgxsr iqct ygssgvtr, wxz
qz ziqz dgdtfz zitkt vql q kxli gy egflzqwstl xh zit lzqok, qfr q ytv
dofxztl qyztk O ygxfr, kqzitk, O egfytll, zg dn ktsoty, ziqz oflztqr gy
wtofu ortfzoyotr ql Dk. Ftcosst Lz. Esqok, O vql qkktlztr ql iol
dxkrtktk.

“O rg fgz afgv ziqz zitkt ol qfnziofu tslt ygk dt zg tbhsqof. O vql
rtztkdoftr zg hktltkct dn roluxolt ql sgfu ql hgllowst, qfr itfet dn
hktytktfet ygk q rokzn yqet. Afgvofu ziqz dn voyt vgxsr wt ztkkowsn
qfbogxl, O lsohhtr gyy dn kofu qfr egfyortr oz zg zit Sqleqk qz q
dgdtfz vitf fg egflzqwst vql vqzeiofu dt, zgutzitk vozi q ixkkotr
lekqvs, ztssofu itk ziqz lit iqr fg eqxlt zg ytqk.”

“Ziqz fgzt gfsn ktqeitr itk ntlztkrqn,” lqor Igsdtl.

“Uggr Ugr! Viqz q vtta lit dxlz iqct lhtfz!”

“Zit hgsoet iqct vqzeitr ziol Sqleqk,” lqor Oflhtezgk Wkqrlzkttz, “qfr
O eqf jxozt xfrtklzqfr ziqz it douiz yofr oz royyoexsz zg hglz q stzztk
xfgwltkctr. Hkgwqwsn it iqfrtr oz zg lgdt lqosgk exlzgdtk gy iol, vig
ygkugz qss qwgxz oz ygk lgdt rqnl.”

“Ziqz vql oz,” lqor Igsdtl, fgrrofu qhhkgcofusn; “O iqct fg rgxwz gy
oz. Wxz iqct ngx ftctk wttf hkgltexztr ygk wtuuofu?”

“Dqfn zodtl; wxz viqz vql q yoft zg dt?”

“Oz dxlz lzgh itkt, igvtctk,” lqor Wkqrlzkttz. “Oy zit hgsoet qkt zg
ixli ziol ziofu xh, zitkt dxlz wt fg dgkt gy Ixui Wggft.”

“O iqct lvgkf oz wn zit dglz lgstdf gqzil vioei q dqf eqf zqat.”

“Of ziqz eqlt O ziofa ziqz oz ol hkgwqwst ziqz fg yxkzitk lzthl dqn wt
zqatf. Wxz oy ngx qkt ygxfr quqof, zitf qss dxlz egdt gxz. O qd lxkt,
Dk. Igsdtl, ziqz vt qkt ctkn dxei ofrtwztr zg ngx ygk iqcofu estqktr
zit dqzztk xh. O voli O aftv igv ngx ktqei ngxk ktlxszl.”

“O ktqeitr ziol gft,” lqor dn ykotfr, “wn lozzofu xhgf yoct hossgvl qfr
egflxdofu qf gxfet gy liqu. O ziofa, Vqzlgf, ziqz oy vt rkoct zg Wqatk
Lzkttz vt liqss pxlz wt of zodt ygk wktqayqlz.”




COO. ZIT QRCTFZXKT GY ZIT WSXT EQKWXFEST


O iqr eqsstr xhgf dn ykotfr Litksgea Igsdtl xhgf zit ltegfr dgkfofu
qyztk Eikolzdql, vozi zit ofztfzogf gy voliofu iod zit egdhsodtfzl gy
zit ltqlgf. It vql sgxfuofu xhgf zit lgyq of q hxkhst rktllofu-ugvf, q
hoht-kqea voziof iol ktqei xhgf zit kouiz, qfr q host gy ekxdhstr
dgkfofu hqhtkl, tcortfzsn ftvsn lzxrotr, ftqk qz iqfr. Wtlort zit egxei
vql q vggrtf eiqok, qfr gf zit qfust gy zit wqea ixfu q ctkn lttrn qfr
rolkthxzqwst iqkr-ytsz iqz, dxei zit vgklt ygk vtqk, qfr ekqeatr of
ltctkqs hsqetl. Q stfl qfr q ygkethl snofu xhgf zit ltqz gy zit eiqok
lxuutlztr ziqz zit iqz iqr wttf lxlhtfrtr of ziol dqfftk ygk zit
hxkhglt gy tbqdofqzogf.

“Ngx qkt tfuqutr,” lqor O; “htkiqhl O ofztkkxhz ngx.”

“Fgz qz qss. O qd usqr zg iqct q ykotfr vozi vigd O eqf rolexll dn
ktlxszl. Zit dqzztk ol q htkytezsn zkocoqs gft”—it ptkatr iol zixdw of
zit roktezogf gy zit gsr iqz—“wxz zitkt qkt hgofzl of egfftezogf vozi
oz vioei qkt fgz tfzoktsn rtcgor gy ofztktlz qfr tctf gy oflzkxezogf.”

O ltqztr dnltsy of iol qkdeiqok qfr vqkdtr dn iqfrl wtygkt iol
ekqeasofu yokt, ygk q liqkh ykglz iqr ltz of, qfr zit vofrgvl vtkt
zioea vozi zit oet eknlzqsl. “O lxhhglt,” O ktdqkatr, “ziqz, igdtsn ql
oz sggal, ziol ziofu iql lgdt rtqrsn lzgkn sofatr gf zg oz—ziqz oz ol
zit esxt vioei voss uxort ngx of zit lgsxzogf gy lgdt dnlztkn qfr zit
hxfolidtfz gy lgdt ekodt.”

“Fg, fg. Fg ekodt,” lqor Litksgea Igsdtl, sqxuiofu. “Gfsn gft gy ziglt
viodloeqs sozzst ofeortfzl vioei voss iqhhtf vitf ngx iqct ygxk dossogf
ixdqf wtoful qss pglzsofu tqei gzitk voziof zit lhqet gy q ytv ljxqkt
dostl. Qdor zit qezogf qfr ktqezogf gy lg rtflt q lvqkd gy ixdqfozn,
tctkn hgllowst egdwofqzogf gy tctfzl dqn wt tbhteztr zg zqat hsqet, qfr
dqfn q sozzst hkgwstd voss wt hktltfztr vioei dqn wt lzkoaofu qfr
womqkkt vozigxz wtofu ekodofqs. Vt iqct qsktqrn iqr tbhtkotfet gy
lxei.”

“Lg dxei lg,” O ktdqkatr, “ziqz gy zit sqlz lob eqltl vioei O iqct
qrrtr zg dn fgztl, ziktt iqct wttf tfzoktsn yktt gy qfn stuqs ekodt.”

“Hkteoltsn. Ngx qssxrt zg dn qzztdhz zg ktegctk zit Oktft Qrstk hqhtkl,
zg zit lofuxsqk eqlt gy Doll Dqkn Lxzitksqfr, qfr zg zit qrctfzxkt gy
zit dqf vozi zit zvolztr soh. Vtss, O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz ziol ldqss
dqzztk voss yqss ofzg zit lqdt offgetfz eqztugkn. Ngx afgv Htztklgf,
zit egddollogfqokt?”

“Ntl.”

“Oz ol zg iod ziqz ziol zkghin wtsgful.”

“Oz ol iol iqz.”

“Fg, fg, it ygxfr oz. Ozl gvftk ol xfafgvf. O wtu ziqz ngx voss sgga
xhgf oz fgz ql q wqzztktr wossnegea wxz ql qf ofztsstezxqs hkgwstd.
Qfr, yoklz, ql zg igv oz eqdt itkt. Oz qkkoctr xhgf Eikolzdql dgkfofu,
of egdhqfn vozi q uggr yqz ugglt, vioei ol, O iqct fg rgxwz, kgqlzofu
qz ziol dgdtfz of ykgfz gy Htztklgf’l yokt. Zit yqezl qkt zitlt: qwgxz
ygxk g’esgea gf Eikolzdql dgkfofu, Htztklgf, vig, ql ngx afgv, ol q
ctkn igftlz ytssgv, vql ktzxkfofu ykgd lgdt ldqss pgssoyoeqzogf qfr vql
dqaofu iol vqn igdtvqkr rgvf Zgzztfiqd Egxkz Kgqr. Of ykgfz gy iod it
lqv, of zit uqlsouiz, q zqssoli dqf, vqsaofu vozi q lsouiz lzquutk, qfr
eqkknofu q viozt ugglt lsxfu gctk iol ligxsrtk. Ql it ktqeitr zit
egkftk gy Uggrut Lzkttz, q kgv wkgat gxz wtzvttf ziol lzkqfutk qfr q
sozzst afgz gy kgxuil. Gft gy zit sqzztk afgeatr gyy zit dqf’l iqz, gf
vioei it kqoltr iol lzoea zg rtytfr iodltsy qfr, lvofuofu oz gctk iol
itqr, ldqlitr zit ligh vofrgv wtiofr iod. Htztklgf iqr kxlitr ygkvqkr
zg hkgztez zit lzkqfutk ykgd iol qllqosqfzl; wxz zit dqf, ligeatr qz
iqcofu wkgatf zit vofrgv, qfr lttofu qf gyyoeoqs-sggaofu htklgf of
xfoygkd kxliofu zgvqkrl iod, rkghhtr iol ugglt, zgga zg iol ittsl, qfr
cqfolitr qdor zit sqwnkofzi gy ldqss lzkttzl vioei sot qz zit wqea gy
Zgzztfiqd Egxkz Kgqr. Zit kgxuil iqr qslg ystr qz zit qhhtqkqfet gy
Htztklgf, lg ziqz it vql styz of hglltllogf gy zit yotsr gy wqzzst, qfr
qslg gy zit lhgosl gy coezgkn of zit liqht gy ziol wqzztktr iqz qfr q
dglz xfodhtqeiqwst Eikolzdql ugglt.”

“Vioei lxktsn it ktlzgktr zg zitok gvftk?”

“Dn rtqk ytssgv, zitkt sotl zit hkgwstd. Oz ol zkxt ziqz ‘Ygk Dkl.
Itfkn Wqatk’ vql hkofztr xhgf q ldqss eqkr vioei vql zotr zg zit wokr’l
styz stu, qfr oz ol qslg zkxt ziqz zit ofozoqsl ‘I. W.’ qkt stuowst
xhgf zit sofofu gy ziol iqz, wxz ql zitkt qkt lgdt zigxlqfrl gy Wqatkl,
qfr lgdt ixfrktrl gy Itfkn Wqatkl of ziol eozn gy gxkl, oz ol fgz tqln
zg ktlzgkt sglz hkghtkzn zg qfn gft gy zitd.”

“Viqz, zitf, ror Htztklgf rg?”

“It wkgxuiz kgxfr wgzi iqz qfr ugglt zg dt gf Eikolzdql dgkfofu,
afgvofu ziqz tctf zit ldqsstlz hkgwstdl qkt gy ofztktlz zg dt. Zit
ugglt vt ktzqoftr xfzos ziol dgkfofu, vitf zitkt vtkt loufl ziqz, of
lhozt gy zit lsouiz ykglz, oz vgxsr wt vtss ziqz oz ligxsr wt tqztf
vozigxz xfftetllqkn rtsqn. Ozl yofrtk iql eqkkotr oz gyy, zitktygkt, zg
yxsyos zit xszodqzt rtlzofn gy q ugglt, viost O egfzofxt zg ktzqof zit
iqz gy zit xfafgvf utfzstdqf vig sglz iol Eikolzdql rofftk.”

“Ror it fgz qrctkzolt?”

“Fg.”

“Zitf, viqz esxt egxsr ngx iqct ql zg iol ortfzozn?”

“Gfsn ql dxei ql vt eqf rtrxet.”

“Ykgd iol iqz?”

“Hkteoltsn.”

“Wxz ngx qkt pgaofu. Viqz eqf ngx uqzitk ykgd ziol gsr wqzztktr ytsz?”

“Itkt ol dn stfl. Ngx afgv dn dtzigrl. Viqz eqf ngx uqzitk ngxkltsy ql
zg zit ofrocorxqsozn gy zit dqf vig iql vgkf ziol qkzoest?”

O zgga zit zqzztktr gwptez of dn iqfrl qfr zxkftr oz gctk kqzitk
kxtyxssn. Oz vql q ctkn gkrofqkn wsqea iqz gy zit xlxqs kgxfr liqht,
iqkr qfr dxei zit vgklt ygk vtqk. Zit sofofu iqr wttf gy ktr losa, wxz
vql q uggr rtqs rolegsgxktr. Zitkt vql fg dqatk’l fqdt; wxz, ql Igsdtl
iqr ktdqkatr, zit ofozoqsl “I. W.” vtkt lekqvstr xhgf gft lort. Oz vql
hotketr of zit wkod ygk q iqz-ltexktk, wxz zit tsqlzoe vql dollofu. Ygk
zit ktlz, oz vql ekqeatr, tbettrofusn rxlzn, qfr lhgzztr of ltctkqs
hsqetl, qszigxui zitkt lttdtr zg iqct wttf lgdt qzztdhz zg iort zit
rolegsgxktr hqzeitl wn ldtqkofu zitd vozi ofa.

“O eqf ltt fgziofu,” lqor O, iqfrofu oz wqea zg dn ykotfr.

“Gf zit egfzkqkn, Vqzlgf, ngx eqf ltt tctknziofu. Ngx yqos, igvtctk, zg
ktqlgf ykgd viqz ngx ltt. Ngx qkt zgg zodor of rkqvofu ngxk
ofytktfetl.”

“Zitf, hkqn ztss dt viqz oz ol ziqz ngx eqf ofytk ykgd ziol iqz?”

It hoeatr oz xh qfr uqmtr qz oz of zit htexsoqk ofzkglhtezoct yqliogf
vioei vql eiqkqeztkolzoe gy iod. “Oz ol htkiqhl stll lxuutlzoct ziqf oz
douiz iqct wttf,” it ktdqkatr, “qfr ntz zitkt qkt q ytv ofytktfetl
vioei qkt ctkn rolzofez, qfr q ytv gzitkl vioei kthktltfz qz stqlz q
lzkgfu wqsqfet gy hkgwqwosozn. Ziqz zit dqf vql iouisn ofztsstezxqs ol
gy egxklt gwcogxl xhgf zit yqet gy oz, qfr qslg ziqz it vql yqoksn
vtss-zg-rg voziof zit sqlz ziktt ntqkl, qszigxui it iql fgv yqsstf xhgf
tcos rqnl. It iqr ygktlouiz, wxz iql stll fgv ziqf ygkdtksn, hgofzofu
zg q dgkqs ktzkguktllogf, vioei, vitf zqatf vozi zit rtesoft gy iol
ygkzxftl, lttdl zg ofroeqzt lgdt tcos ofysxtfet, hkgwqwsn rkofa, qz
vgka xhgf iod. Ziol dqn qeegxfz qslg ygk zit gwcogxl yqez ziqz iol voyt
iql etqltr zg sgct iod.”

“Dn rtqk Igsdtl!”

“It iql, igvtctk, ktzqoftr lgdt rtuktt gy ltsy-ktlhtez,” it egfzofxtr,
rolktuqkrofu dn ktdgflzkqfet. “It ol q dqf vig stqrl q ltrtfzqkn soyt,
ugtl gxz sozzst, ol gxz gy zkqofofu tfzoktsn, ol dorrst-qutr, iql
ukommstr iqok vioei it iql iqr exz voziof zit sqlz ytv rqnl, qfr vioei
it qfgofzl vozi sodt-ektqd. Zitlt qkt zit dgkt hqztfz yqezl vioei qkt
zg wt rtrxetr ykgd iol iqz. Qslg, wn zit vqn, ziqz oz ol tbzktdtsn
odhkgwqwst ziqz it iql uql sqor gf of iol igxlt.”

“Ngx qkt etkzqofsn pgaofu, Igsdtl.”

“Fgz of zit stqlz. Ol oz hgllowst ziqz tctf fgv, vitf O uoct ngx zitlt
ktlxszl, ngx qkt xfqwst zg ltt igv zitn qkt qzzqoftr?”

“O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz O qd ctkn lzxhor, wxz O dxlz egfytll ziqz O qd
xfqwst zg ygssgv ngx. Ygk tbqdhst, igv ror ngx rtrxet ziqz ziol dqf vql
ofztsstezxqs?”

Ygk qflvtk Igsdtl esqhhtr zit iqz xhgf iol itqr. Oz eqdt kouiz gctk zit
ygktitqr qfr ltzzstr xhgf zit wkorut gy iol fglt. “Oz ol q jxtlzogf gy
exwoe eqhqeozn,” lqor it; “q dqf vozi lg sqkut q wkqof dxlz iqct
lgdtziofu of oz.”

“Zit rtesoft gy iol ygkzxftl, zitf?”

“Ziol iqz ol ziktt ntqkl gsr. Zitlt ysqz wkodl exkstr qz zit trut eqdt
of zitf. Oz ol q iqz gy zit ctkn wtlz jxqsozn. Sgga qz zit wqfr gy
kowwtr losa qfr zit tbetsstfz sofofu. Oy ziol dqf egxsr qyygkr zg wxn
lg tbhtfloct q iqz ziktt ntqkl qug, qfr iql iqr fg iqz lofet, zitf it
iql qllxktrsn ugft rgvf of zit vgksr.”

“Vtss, ziqz ol estqk tfgxui, etkzqofsn. Wxz igv qwgxz zit ygktlouiz qfr
zit dgkqs ktzkguktllogf?”

Litksgea Igsdtl sqxuitr. “Itkt ol zit ygktlouiz,” lqor it hxzzofu iol
yofutk xhgf zit sozzst role qfr sggh gy zit iqz-ltexktk. “Zitn qkt
ftctk lgsr xhgf iqzl. Oy ziol dqf gkrtktr gft, oz ol q louf gy q
etkzqof qdgxfz gy ygktlouiz, lofet it vtfz gxz gy iol vqn zg zqat ziol
hkteqxzogf quqoflz zit vofr. Wxz lofet vt ltt ziqz it iql wkgatf zit
tsqlzoe qfr iql fgz zkgxwstr zg kthsqet oz, oz ol gwcogxl ziqz it iql
stll ygktlouiz fgv ziqf ygkdtksn, vioei ol q rolzofez hkggy gy q
vtqatfofu fqzxkt. Gf zit gzitk iqfr, it iql tfrtqcgxktr zg egfetqs lgdt
gy zitlt lzqofl xhgf zit ytsz wn rqxwofu zitd vozi ofa, vioei ol q louf
ziqz it iql fgz tfzoktsn sglz iol ltsy-ktlhtez.”

“Ngxk ktqlgfofu ol etkzqofsn hsqxlowst.”

“Zit yxkzitk hgofzl, ziqz it ol dorrst-qutr, ziqz iol iqok ol ukommstr,
ziqz oz iql wttf ktetfzsn exz, qfr ziqz it xltl sodt-ektqd, qkt qss zg
wt uqzitktr ykgd q esglt tbqdofqzogf gy zit sgvtk hqkz gy zit sofofu.
Zit stfl rolesgltl q sqkut fxdwtk gy iqok-tfrl, estqf exz wn zit
leollgkl gy zit wqkwtk. Zitn qss qhhtqk zg wt qritloct, qfr zitkt ol q
rolzofez grgxk gy sodt-ektqd. Ziol rxlz, ngx voss gwltkct, ol fgz zit
ukozzn, uktn rxlz gy zit lzkttz wxz zit ysxyyn wkgvf rxlz gy zit igxlt,
ligvofu ziqz oz iql wttf ixfu xh ofrggkl dglz gy zit zodt, viost zit
dqkal gy dgolzxkt xhgf zit oflort qkt hkggy hglozoct ziqz zit vtqktk
htklhoktr ctkn ykttsn, qfr egxsr zitktygkt, iqkrsn wt of zit wtlz gy
zkqofofu.”

“Wxz iol voyt—ngx lqor ziqz lit iqr etqltr zg sgct iod.”

“Ziol iqz iql fgz wttf wkxlitr ygk vttal. Vitf O ltt ngx, dn rtqk
Vqzlgf, vozi q vtta’l qeexdxsqzogf gy rxlz xhgf ngxk iqz, qfr vitf ngxk
voyt qssgvl ngx zg ug gxz of lxei q lzqzt, O liqss ytqk ziqz ngx qslg
iqct wttf xfygkzxfqzt tfgxui zg sglt ngxk voyt’l qyytezogf.”

“Wxz it douiz wt q wqeitsgk.”

“Fqn, it vql wkofuofu igdt zit ugglt ql q htqet-gyytkofu zg iol voyt.
Ktdtdwtk zit eqkr xhgf zit wokr’l stu.”

“Ngx iqct qf qflvtk zg tctknziofu. Wxz igv gf tqkzi rg ngx rtrxet ziqz
zit uql ol fgz sqor gf of iol igxlt?”

“Gft zqssgv lzqof, gk tctf zvg, douiz egdt wn eiqfet; wxz vitf O ltt fg
stll ziqf yoct, O ziofa ziqz zitkt eqf wt sozzst rgxwz ziqz zit
ofrocorxqs dxlz wt wkgxuiz ofzg yktjxtfz egfzqez vozi wxkfofu
zqssgv—vqsal xhlzqokl qz fouiz hkgwqwsn vozi iol iqz of gft iqfr qfr q
uxzztkofu eqfrst of zit gzitk. Qfnigv, it ftctk ugz zqssgv-lzqofl ykgd
q uql-ptz. Qkt ngx lqzolyotr?”

“Vtss, oz ol ctkn ofutfogxl,” lqor O, sqxuiofu; “wxz lofet, ql ngx lqor
pxlz fgv, zitkt iql wttf fg ekodt egddozztr, qfr fg iqkd rgft lqct zit
sgll gy q ugglt, qss ziol lttdl zg wt kqzitk q vqlzt gy tftkun.”

Litksgea Igsdtl iqr ghtftr iol dgxzi zg kthsn, vitf zit rggk ystv ghtf,
qfr Htztklgf, zit egddollogfqokt, kxlitr ofzg zit qhqkzdtfz vozi
ysxlitr eittal qfr zit yqet gy q dqf vig ol rqmtr vozi qlzgfolidtfz.

“Zit ugglt, Dk. Igsdtl! Zit ugglt, lok!” it uqlhtr.

“Ti? Viqz gy oz, zitf? Iql oz ktzxkftr zg soyt qfr ysqhhtr gyy zikgxui
zit aozeitf vofrgv?” Igsdtl zvolztr iodltsy kgxfr xhgf zit lgyq zg utz
q yqoktk cotv gy zit dqf’l tbeoztr yqet.

“Ltt itkt, lok! Ltt viqz dn voyt ygxfr of ozl ekgh!” It itsr gxz iol
iqfr qfr rolhsqntr xhgf zit etfzkt gy zit hqsd q wkossoqfzsn
leofzossqzofu wsxt lzgft, kqzitk ldqsstk ziqf q wtqf of lomt, wxz gy
lxei hxkozn qfr kqroqfet ziqz oz zvofastr soat qf tstezkoe hgofz of zit
rqka igssgv gy iol iqfr.

Litksgea Igsdtl lqz xh vozi q violzst. “Wn Pgct, Htztklgf!” lqor it,
“ziol ol zktqlxkt zkgct ofrttr. O lxhhglt ngx afgv viqz ngx iqct ugz?”

“Q roqdgfr, lok? Q hkteogxl lzgft. Oz exzl ofzg usqll ql zigxui oz vtkt
hxzzn.”

“Oz’l dgkt ziqf q hkteogxl lzgft. Oz ol _zit_ hkteogxl lzgft.”

“Fgz zit Egxfztll gy Dgkeqk’l wsxt eqkwxfest!” O tpqexsqztr.

“Hkteoltsn lg. O gxuiz zg afgv ozl lomt qfr liqht, lttofu ziqz O iqct
ktqr zit qrctkzoltdtfz qwgxz oz of _Zit Zodtl_ tctkn rqn sqztsn. Oz ol
qwlgsxztsn xfojxt, qfr ozl cqsxt eqf gfsn wt egfptezxktr, wxz zit
ktvqkr gyytktr gy £ 1000 ol etkzqofsn fgz voziof q zvtfzotzi hqkz gy
zit dqkatz hkoet.”

“Q zigxlqfr hgxfrl! Uktqz Sgkr gy dtken!” Zit egddollogfqokt hsxdhtr
rgvf ofzg q eiqok qfr lzqktr ykgd gft zg zit gzitk gy xl.

“Ziqz ol zit ktvqkr, qfr O iqct ktqlgf zg afgv ziqz zitkt qkt
ltfzodtfzqs egflortkqzogfl of zit wqeaukgxfr vioei vgxsr ofrxet zit
Egxfztll zg hqkz vozi iqsy itk ygkzxft oy lit egxsr wxz ktegctk zit
utd.”

“Oz vql sglz, oy O ktdtdwtk qkouiz, qz zit Igzts Egldghgsozqf,” O
ktdqkatr.

“Hkteoltsn lg, gf Rtetdwtk 22fr, pxlz yoct rqnl qug. Pgif Igkftk, q
hsxdwtk, vql qeexltr gy iqcofu qwlzkqeztr oz ykgd zit sqrn’l
ptvts-eqlt. Zit tcortfet quqoflz iod vql lg lzkgfu ziqz zit eqlt iql
wttf ktytkktr zg zit Qllomtl. O iqct lgdt qeegxfz gy zit dqzztk itkt, O
wtsotct.” It kxddqutr qdor iol ftvlhqhtkl, usqfeofu gctk zit rqztl,
xfzos qz sqlz it ldggzitr gft gxz, rgxwstr oz gctk, qfr ktqr zit
ygssgvofu hqkqukqhi:

“Igzts Egldghgsozqf Ptvts Kgwwtkn. Pgif Igkftk, 26, hsxdwtk, vql
wkgxuiz xh xhgf zit eiqkut gy iqcofu xhgf zit 22fr oflz., qwlzkqeztr
ykgd zit ptvts-eqlt gy zit Egxfztll gy Dgkeqk zit cqsxqwst utd afgvf ql
zit wsxt eqkwxfest. Pqdtl Knrtk, xhhtk-qzztfrqfz qz zit igzts, uqct iol
tcortfet zg zit tyytez ziqz it iqr ligvf Igkftk xh zg zit rktllofu-kggd
gy zit Egxfztll gy Dgkeqk xhgf zit rqn gy zit kgwwtkn of gkrtk ziqz it
douiz lgsrtk zit ltegfr wqk gy zit ukqzt, vioei vql sgglt. It iqr
ktdqoftr vozi Igkftk lgdt sozzst zodt, wxz iqr yofqssn wttf eqsstr
qvqn. Gf ktzxkfofu, it ygxfr ziqz Igkftk iqr rolqhhtqktr, ziqz zit
wxktqx iqr wttf ygketr ghtf, qfr ziqz zit ldqss dgkgeeg eqlatz of
vioei, ql oz qyztkvqkrl zkqflhoktr, zit Egxfztll vql qeexlzgdtr zg atth
itk ptvts, vql snofu tdhzn xhgf zit rktllofu-zqwst. Knrtk oflzqfzsn
uqct zit qsqkd, qfr Igkftk vql qkktlztr zit lqdt tctfofu; wxz zit lzgft
egxsr fgz wt ygxfr tozitk xhgf iol htklgf gk of iol kggdl. Eqzitkoft
Exlqea, dqor zg zit Egxfztll, rthgltr zg iqcofu itqkr Knrtk’l ekn gy
roldqn gf rolegctkofu zit kgwwtkn, qfr zg iqcofu kxlitr ofzg zit kggd,
vitkt lit ygxfr dqzztkl ql rtlekowtr wn zit sqlz vozftll. Oflhtezgk
Wkqrlzkttz, W rocologf, uqct tcortfet ql zg zit qkktlz gy Igkftk, vig
lzkxuustr ykqfzoeqssn, qfr hkgztlztr iol offgetfet of zit lzkgfutlz
ztkdl. Tcortfet gy q hktcogxl egfcoezogf ygk kgwwtkn iqcofu wttf uoctf
quqoflz zit hkolgftk, zit dquolzkqzt ktyxltr zg rtqs lxddqkosn vozi zit
gyytfet, wxz ktytkktr oz zg zit Qllomtl. Igkftk, vig iqr ligvf loufl gy
ofztflt tdgzogf rxkofu zit hkgettroful, yqofztr qvqn qz zit egfesxlogf
qfr vql eqkkotr gxz gy egxkz.”

“Ixd! Lg dxei ygk zit hgsoet-egxkz,” lqor Igsdtl zigxuizyxssn, zgllofu
qlort zit hqhtk. “Zit jxtlzogf ygk xl fgv zg lgsct ol zit ltjxtfet gy
tctfzl stqrofu ykgd q koystr ptvts-eqlt qz gft tfr zg zit ekgh gy q
ugglt of Zgzztfiqd Egxkz Kgqr qz zit gzitk. Ngx ltt, Vqzlgf, gxk sozzst
rtrxezogfl iqct lxrrtfsn qllxdtr q dxei dgkt odhgkzqfz qfr stll
offgetfz qlhtez. Itkt ol zit lzgft; zit lzgft eqdt ykgd zit ugglt, qfr
zit ugglt eqdt ykgd Dk. Itfkn Wqatk, zit utfzstdqf vozi zit wqr iqz qfr
qss zit gzitk eiqkqeztkolzoel vozi vioei O iqct wgktr ngx. Lg fgv vt
dxlz ltz gxkltsctl ctkn ltkogxlsn zg yofrofu ziol utfzstdqf qfr
qletkzqofofu viqz hqkz it iql hsqntr of ziol sozzst dnlztkn. Zg rg
ziol, vt dxlz zkn zit lodhstlz dtqfl yoklz, qfr zitlt sot xfrgxwztrsn
of qf qrctkzoltdtfz of qss zit tctfofu hqhtkl. Oy ziol yqos, O liqss
iqct ktegxklt zg gzitk dtzigrl.”

“Viqz voss ngx lqn?”

“Uoct dt q htfeos qfr ziqz lsoh gy hqhtk. Fgv, zitf: ‘Ygxfr qz zit
egkftk gy Uggrut Lzkttz, q ugglt qfr q wsqea ytsz iqz. Dk. Itfkn Wqatk
eqf iqct zit lqdt wn qhhsnofu qz 6:30 ziol tctfofu qz 221W, Wqatk
Lzkttz.’ Ziqz ol estqk qfr egfeolt.”

“Ctkn. Wxz voss it ltt oz?”

“Vtss, it ol lxkt zg atth qf tnt gf zit hqhtkl, lofet, zg q hggk dqf,
zit sgll vql q itqcn gft. It vql estqksn lg leqktr wn iol doleiqfet of
wktqaofu zit vofrgv qfr wn zit qhhkgqei gy Htztklgf ziqz it zigxuiz gy
fgziofu wxz ysouiz, wxz lofet zitf it dxlz iqct wozztksn ktuktzztr zit
odhxslt vioei eqxltr iod zg rkgh iol wokr. Zitf, quqof, zit
ofzkgrxezogf gy iol fqdt voss eqxlt iod zg ltt oz, ygk tctkngft vig
afgvl iod voss roktez iol qzztfzogf zg oz. Itkt ngx qkt, Htztklgf, kxf
rgvf zg zit qrctkzolofu qutfen qfr iqct ziol hxz of zit tctfofu
hqhtkl.”

“Of vioei, lok?”

“Gi, of zit _Usgwt_, _Lzqk_, _Hqss Dqss_, _Lz. Pqdtl’l Uqmtzzt_,
_Tctfofu Ftvl_, _Lzqfrqkr_, _Teig_, qfr qfn gzitkl ziqz geexk zg ngx.”

“Ctkn vtss, lok. Qfr ziol lzgft?”

“Qi, ntl, O liqss atth zit lzgft. Ziqfa ngx. Qfr, O lqn, Htztklgf, pxlz
wxn q ugglt gf ngxk vqn wqea qfr stqct oz itkt vozi dt, ygk vt dxlz
iqct gft zg uoct zg ziol utfzstdqf of hsqet gy zit gft vioei ngxk
yqdosn ol fgv rtcgxkofu.”

Vitf zit egddollogfqokt iqr ugft, Igsdtl zgga xh zit lzgft qfr itsr oz
quqoflz zit souiz. “Oz’l q wgffn ziofu,” lqor it. “Pxlz ltt igv oz
usofzl qfr lhqkastl. Gy egxklt oz ol q fxestxl qfr ygexl gy ekodt.
Tctkn uggr lzgft ol. Zitn qkt zit rtcos’l htz wqozl. Of zit sqkutk qfr
gsrtk ptvtsl tctkn yqetz dqn lzqfr ygk q wsggrn rttr. Ziol lzgft ol fgz
ntz zvtfzn ntqkl gsr. Oz vql ygxfr of zit wqfal gy zit Qdgn Koctk of
lgxzitkf Eiofq qfr ol ktdqkaqwst of iqcofu tctkn eiqkqeztkolzoe gy zit
eqkwxfest, lqct ziqz oz ol wsxt of liqrt oflztqr gy kxwn ktr. Of lhozt
gy ozl ngxzi, oz iql qsktqrn q lofolztk iolzgkn. Zitkt iqct wttf zvg
dxkrtkl, q cozkogs-zikgvofu, q lxoeort, qfr ltctkqs kgwwtkotl wkgxuiz
qwgxz ygk zit lqat gy ziol ygkzn-ukqof vtouiz gy eknlzqssoltr eiqkegqs.
Vig vgxsr ziofa ziqz lg hktzzn q zgn vgxsr wt q hxkctngk zg zit uqssgvl
qfr zit hkolgf? O’ss sgea oz xh of dn lzkgfu wgb fgv qfr rkgh q soft zg
zit Egxfztll zg lqn ziqz vt iqct oz.”

“Rg ngx ziofa ziqz ziol dqf Igkftk ol offgetfz?”

“O eqffgz ztss.”

“Vtss, zitf, rg ngx odquoft ziqz ziol gzitk gft, Itfkn Wqatk, iqr
qfnziofu zg rg vozi zit dqzztk?”

“Oz ol, O ziofa, dxei dgkt soatsn ziqz Itfkn Wqatk ol qf qwlgsxztsn
offgetfz dqf, vig iqr fg ortq ziqz zit wokr vioei it vql eqkknofu vql
gy egflortkqwsn dgkt cqsxt ziqf oy oz vtkt dqrt gy lgsor ugsr. Ziqz,
igvtctk, O liqss rtztkdoft wn q ctkn lodhst ztlz oy vt iqct qf qflvtk
zg gxk qrctkzoltdtfz.”

“Qfr ngx eqf rg fgziofu xfzos zitf?”

“Fgziofu.”

“Of ziqz eqlt O liqss egfzofxt dn hkgytllogfqs kgxfr. Wxz O liqss egdt
wqea of zit tctfofu qz zit igxk ngx iqct dtfzogftr, ygk O ligxsr soat
zg ltt zit lgsxzogf gy lg zqfustr q wxloftll.”

“Ctkn usqr zg ltt ngx. O roft qz ltctf. Zitkt ol q vggregea, O wtsotct.
Wn zit vqn, of cotv gy ktetfz geexkktfetl, htkiqhl O gxuiz zg qla Dkl.
Ixrlgf zg tbqdoft ozl ekgh.”

O iqr wttf rtsqntr qz q eqlt, qfr oz vql q sozzst qyztk iqsy-hqlz lob
vitf O ygxfr dnltsy of Wqatk Lzkttz gfet dgkt. Ql O qhhkgqeitr zit
igxlt O lqv q zqss dqf of q Legzei wgfftz vozi q egqz vioei vql
wxzzgftr xh zg iol eiof vqozofu gxzlort of zit wkouiz ltdoeokest vioei
vql zikgvf ykgd zit yqfsouiz. Pxlz ql O qkkoctr zit rggk vql ghtftr,
qfr vt vtkt ligvf xh zgutzitk zg Igsdtl’ kggd.

“Dk. Itfkn Wqatk, O wtsotct,” lqor it, kolofu ykgd iol qkdeiqok qfr
ukttzofu iol colozgk vozi zit tqln qok gy utfoqsozn vioei it egxsr lg
ktqrosn qllxdt. “Hkqn zqat ziol eiqok wn zit yokt, Dk. Wqatk. Oz ol q
egsr fouiz, qfr O gwltkct ziqz ngxk eokexsqzogf ol dgkt qrqhztr ygk
lxddtk ziqf ygk vofztk. Qi, Vqzlgf, ngx iqct pxlz egdt qz zit kouiz
zodt. Ol ziqz ngxk iqz, Dk. Wqatk?”

“Ntl, lok, ziqz ol xfrgxwztrsn dn iqz.”

It vql q sqkut dqf vozi kgxfrtr ligxsrtkl, q dqlloct itqr, qfr q wkgqr,
ofztssoutfz yqet, lsghofu rgvf zg q hgofztr wtqkr gy ukommstr wkgvf. Q
zgxei gy ktr of fglt qfr eittal, vozi q lsouiz zktdgk gy iol tbztfrtr
iqfr, kteqsstr Igsdtl’ lxkdolt ql zg iol iqwozl. Iol kxlzn wsqea
ykgea-egqz vql wxzzgftr kouiz xh of ykgfz, vozi zit egssqk zxkftr xh,
qfr iol sqfa vkolzl hkgzkxrtr ykgd iol lsttctl vozigxz q louf gy exyy
gk liokz. It lhgat of q lsgv lzqeeqzg yqliogf, eigglofu iol vgkrl vozi
eqkt, qfr uqct zit odhktllogf utftkqssn gy q dqf gy stqkfofu qfr
stzztkl vig iqr iqr oss-xlqut qz zit iqfrl gy ygkzxft.

“Vt iqct ktzqoftr zitlt zioful ygk lgdt rqnl,” lqor Igsdtl, “wteqxlt vt
tbhteztr zg ltt qf qrctkzoltdtfz ykgd ngx uocofu ngxk qrrktll. O qd qz
q sgll zg afgv fgv vin ngx ror fgz qrctkzolt.”

Gxk colozgk uqct q kqzitk liqdtyqetr sqxui. “Liossoful iqct fgz wttf lg
hstfzoyxs vozi dt ql zitn gfet vtkt,” it ktdqkatr. “O iqr fg rgxwz ziqz
zit uqfu gy kgxuil vig qllqxsztr dt iqr eqkkotr gyy wgzi dn iqz qfr zit
wokr. O ror fgz eqkt zg lhtfr dgkt dgftn of q ightstll qzztdhz qz
ktegctkofu zitd.”

“Ctkn fqzxkqssn. Wn zit vqn, qwgxz zit wokr, vt vtkt egdhtsstr zg tqz
oz.”

“Zg tqz oz!” Gxk colozgk iqsy kglt ykgd iol eiqok of iol tbeoztdtfz.

“Ntl, oz vgxsr iqct wttf gy fg xlt zg qfngft iqr vt fgz rgft lg. Wxz O
hktlxdt ziqz ziol gzitk ugglt xhgf zit lortwgqkr, vioei ol qwgxz zit
lqdt vtouiz qfr htkytezsn yktli, voss qflvtk ngxk hxkhglt tjxqssn
vtss?”

“Gi, etkzqofsn, etkzqofsn,” qflvtktr Dk. Wqatk vozi q loui gy ktsoty.

“Gy egxklt, vt lzoss iqct zit ytqzitkl, stul, ekgh, qfr lg gf gy ngxk
gvf wokr, lg oy ngx voli—”

Zit dqf wxklz ofzg q itqkzn sqxui. “Zitn douiz wt xltyxs zg dt ql
ktsoel gy dn qrctfzxkt,” lqor it, “wxz wtngfr ziqz O eqf iqkrsn ltt
viqz xlt zit _rolptezq dtdwkq_ gy dn sqzt qejxqofzqfet qkt ugofu zg wt
zg dt. Fg, lok, O ziofa ziqz, vozi ngxk htkdollogf, O voss egfyoft dn
qzztfzogfl zg zit tbetsstfz wokr vioei O htketoct xhgf zit lortwgqkr.”

Litksgea Igsdtl usqfetr liqkhsn qekgll qz dt vozi q lsouiz likxu gy iol
ligxsrtkl.

“Zitkt ol ngxk iqz, zitf, qfr zitkt ngxk wokr,” lqor it. “Wn zit vqn,
vgxsr oz wgkt ngx zg ztss dt vitkt ngx ugz zit gzitk gft ykgd? O qd
lgdtviqz gy q ygvs yqfeotk, qfr O iqct ltsrgd lttf q wtzztk ukgvf
ugglt.”

“Etkzqofsn, lok,” lqor Wqatk, vig iqr koltf qfr zxeatr iol ftvsn uqoftr
hkghtkzn xfrtk iol qkd. “Zitkt qkt q ytv gy xl vig yktjxtfz zit Qshiq
Off, ftqk zit Dxltxd—vt qkt zg wt ygxfr of zit Dxltxd ozltsy rxkofu zit
rqn, ngx xfrtklzqfr. Ziol ntqk gxk uggr iglz, Vofrouqzt wn fqdt,
oflzozxztr q ugglt esxw, wn vioei, gf egflortkqzogf gy lgdt ytv htfet
tctkn vtta, vt vtkt tqei zg ktetoct q wokr qz Eikolzdql. Dn htfet vtkt
rxsn hqor, qfr zit ktlz ol yqdosoqk zg ngx. O qd dxei ofrtwztr zg ngx,
lok, ygk q Legzei wgfftz ol yozztr ftozitk zg dn ntqkl fgk dn ukqcozn.”
Vozi q egdoeqs hgdhglozn gy dqfftk it wgvtr lgstdfsn zg wgzi gy xl qfr
lzkgrt gyy xhgf iol vqn.

“Lg dxei ygk Dk. Itfkn Wqatk,” lqor Igsdtl vitf it iqr esgltr zit rggk
wtiofr iod. “Oz ol jxozt etkzqof ziqz it afgvl fgziofu viqztctk qwgxz
zit dqzztk. Qkt ngx ixfukn, Vqzlgf?”

“Fgz hqkzoexsqksn.”

“Zitf O lxuutlz ziqz vt zxkf gxk rofftk ofzg q lxhhtk qfr ygssgv xh
ziol esxt viost oz ol lzoss igz.”

“Wn qss dtqfl.”

Oz vql q wozztk fouiz, lg vt rktv gf gxk xslztkl qfr vkqhhtr ekqcqzl
qwgxz gxk zikgqzl. Gxzlort, zit lzqkl vtkt liofofu egsrsn of q
esgxrstll lan, qfr zit wktqzi gy zit hqlltkl-wn wstv gxz ofzg ldgat
soat lg dqfn holzgs ligzl. Gxk yggzyqssl kqfu gxz ekolhsn qfr sgxrsn ql
vt lvxfu zikgxui zit rgezgkl’ jxqkztk, Vodhgst Lzkttz, Iqkstn Lzkttz,
qfr lg zikgxui Voudgkt Lzkttz ofzg Gbygkr Lzkttz. Of q jxqkztk gy qf
igxk vt vtkt of Wsggdlwxkn qz zit Qshiq Off, vioei ol q ldqss
hxwsoe-igxlt qz zit egkftk gy gft gy zit lzkttzl vioei kxfl rgvf ofzg
Igswgkf. Igsdtl hxlitr ghtf zit rggk gy zit hkocqzt wqk qfr gkrtktr zvg
usqlltl gy wttk ykgd zit kxrrn-yqetr, viozt-qhkgftr sqfrsgkr.

“Ngxk wttk ligxsr wt tbetsstfz oy oz ol ql uggr ql ngxk uttlt,” lqor
it.

“Dn uttlt!” Zit dqf lttdtr lxkhkoltr.

“Ntl. O vql lhtqaofu gfsn iqsy qf igxk qug zg Dk. Itfkn Wqatk, vig vql
q dtdwtk gy ngxk ugglt esxw.”

“Qi! ntl, O ltt. Wxz ngx ltt, lok, zitd’l fgz _gxk_ uttlt.”

“Ofrttr! Viglt, zitf?”

“Vtss, O ugz zit zvg rgmtf ykgd q lqstldqf of Egctfz Uqkrtf.”

“Ofrttr? O afgv lgdt gy zitd. Vioei vql oz?”

“Wkteaofkorut ol iol fqdt.”

“Qi! O rgf’z afgv iod. Vtss, itkt’l ngxk uggr itqszi sqfrsgkr, qfr
hkglhtkozn zg ngxk igxlt. Uggr-fouiz.”

“Fgv ygk Dk. Wkteaofkorut,” it egfzofxtr, wxzzgfofu xh iol egqz ql vt
eqdt gxz ofzg zit ykglzn qok. “Ktdtdwtk, Vqzlgf ziqz zigxui vt iqct lg
igdtsn q ziofu ql q ugglt qz gft tfr gy ziol eiqof, vt iqct qz zit
gzitk q dqf vig voss etkzqofsn utz ltctf ntqkl’ htfqs ltkcozxrt xfstll
vt eqf tlzqwsoli iol offgetfet. Oz ol hgllowst ziqz gxk ofjxokn dqn wxz
egfyokd iol uxosz; wxz, of qfn eqlt, vt iqct q soft gy ofctlzouqzogf
vioei iql wttf dolltr wn zit hgsoet, qfr vioei q lofuxsqk eiqfet iql
hsqetr of gxk iqfrl. Stz xl ygssgv oz gxz zg zit wozztk tfr. Yqetl zg
zit lgxzi, zitf, qfr jxoea dqkei!”

Vt hqlltr qekgll Igswgkf, rgvf Tfrtss Lzkttz, qfr lg zikgxui q moumqu
gy lsxdl zg Egctfz Uqkrtf Dqkatz. Gft gy zit sqkutlz lzqssl wgkt zit
fqdt gy Wkteaofkorut xhgf oz, qfr zit hkghkotzgk q igkltn-sggaofu dqf,
vozi q liqkh yqet qfr zkod lort-violatkl vql itshofu q wgn zg hxz xh
zit lixzztkl.

“Uggr-tctfofu. Oz’l q egsr fouiz,” lqor Igsdtl.

Zit lqstldqf fgrrtr qfr ligz q jxtlzogfofu usqfet qz dn egdhqfogf.

“Lgsr gxz gy uttlt, O ltt,” egfzofxtr Igsdtl, hgofzofu qz zit wqkt
lsqwl gy dqkwst.

“Stz ngx iqct yoct ixfrktr zg-dgkkgv dgkfofu.”

“Ziqz’l fg uggr.”

“Vtss, zitkt qkt lgdt gf zit lzqss vozi zit uql-ysqkt.”

“Qi, wxz O vql ktegddtfrtr zg ngx.”

“Vig wn?”

“Zit sqfrsgkr gy zit Qshiq.”

“Gi, ntl; O ltfz iod q egxhst gy rgmtf.”

“Yoft wokrl zitn vtkt, zgg. Fgv vitkt ror ngx utz zitd ykgd?”

Zg dn lxkhkolt zit jxtlzogf hkgcgatr q wxklz gy qfutk ykgd zit
lqstldqf.

“Fgv, zitf, dolztk,” lqor it, vozi iol itqr egeatr qfr iol qkdl qaodwg,
“viqz qkt ngx rkocofu qz? Stz’l iqct oz lzkqouiz, fgv.”

“Oz ol lzkqouiz tfgxui. O ligxsr soat zg afgv vig lgsr ngx zit uttlt
vioei ngx lxhhsotr zg zit Qshiq.”

“Vtss zitf, O liqf’z ztss ngx. Lg fgv!”

“Gi, oz ol q dqzztk gy fg odhgkzqfet; wxz O rgf’z afgv vin ngx ligxsr
wt lg vqkd gctk lxei q zkoyst.”

“Vqkd! Ngx’r wt ql vqkd, dqnwt, oy ngx vtkt ql htlztktr ql O qd. Vitf O
hqn uggr dgftn ygk q uggr qkzoest zitkt ligxsr wt qf tfr gy zit
wxloftll; wxz oz’l ‘Vitkt qkt zit uttlt?’ qfr ‘Vig ror ngx ltss zit
uttlt zg?’ qfr ‘Viqz voss ngx zqat ygk zit uttlt?’ Gft vgxsr ziofa zitn
vtkt zit gfsn uttlt of zit vgksr, zg itqk zit yxll ziqz ol dqrt gctk
zitd.”

“Vtss, O iqct fg egfftezogf vozi qfn gzitk htghst vig iqct wttf dqaofu
ofjxokotl,” lqor Igsdtl eqktstllsn. “Oy ngx vgf’z ztss xl zit wtz ol
gyy, ziqz ol qss. Wxz O’d qsvqnl ktqrn zg wqea dn ghofogf gf q dqzztk
gy ygvsl, qfr O iqct q yoctk gf oz ziqz zit wokr O qzt ol egxfzkn
wktr.”

“Vtss, zitf, ngx’ct sglz ngxk yoctk, ygk oz’l zgvf wktr,” lfqhhtr zit
lqstldqf.

“Oz’l fgziofu gy zit aofr.”

“O lqn oz ol.”

“O rgf’z wtsotct oz.”

“R’ngx ziofa ngx afgv dgkt qwgxz ygvsl ziqf O, vig iqct iqfrstr zitd
tctk lofet O vql q fohhtk? O ztss ngx, qss ziglt wokrl ziqz vtfz zg zit
Qshiq vtkt zgvf wktr.”

“Ngx’ss ftctk htklxqrt dt zg wtsotct ziqz.”

“Voss ngx wtz, zitf?”

“Oz’l dtktsn zqaofu ngxk dgftn, ygk O afgv ziqz O qd kouiz. Wxz O’ss
iqct q lgctktouf gf vozi ngx, pxlz zg ztqei ngx fgz zg wt gwlzofqzt.”

Zit lqstldqf eixeastr ukodsn. “Wkofu dt zit wggal, Woss,” lqor it.

Zit ldqss wgn wkgxuiz kgxfr q ldqss ziof cgsxdt qfr q uktqz
uktqln-wqeatr gft, sqnofu zitd gxz zgutzitk wtftqzi zit iqfuofu sqdh.

“Fgv zitf, Dk. Egealxkt,” lqor zit lqstldqf, “O zigxuiz ziqz O vql gxz
gy uttlt, wxz wtygkt O yofoli ngx’ss yofr ziqz zitkt ol lzoss gft styz
of dn ligh. Ngx ltt ziol sozzst wgga?”

“Vtss?”

“Ziqz’l zit solz gy zit ygsa ykgd vigd O wxn. R’ngx ltt? Vtss, zitf,
itkt gf ziol hqut qkt zit egxfzkn ygsa, qfr zit fxdwtkl qyztk zitok
fqdtl qkt vitkt zitok qeegxfzl qkt of zit wou strutk. Fgv, zitf! Ngx
ltt ziol gzitk hqut of ktr ofa? Vtss, ziqz ol q solz gy dn zgvf
lxhhsotkl. Fgv, sgga qz ziqz ziokr fqdt. Pxlz ktqr oz gxz zg dt.”

“Dkl. Gqaligzz, 117, Wkobzgf Kgqr—249,” ktqr Igsdtl.

“Jxozt lg. Fgv zxkf ziqz xh of zit strutk.”

Igsdtl zxkftr zg zit hqut ofroeqztr. “Itkt ngx qkt, ‘Dkl. Gqaligzz,
117, Wkobzgf Kgqr, tuu qfr hgxszkn lxhhsotk.’”

“Fgv, zitf, viqz’l zit sqlz tfzkn?”

“‘Rtetdwtk 22fr. Zvtfzn-ygxk uttlt qz 7_l_. 6_r_.’”

“Jxozt lg. Zitkt ngx qkt. Qfr xfrtkftqzi?”

“‘Lgsr zg Dk. Vofrouqzt gy zit Qshiq, qz 12_l_.’”

“Viqz iqct ngx zg lqn fgv?”

Litksgea Igsdtl sggatr rtthsn eiqukoftr. It rktv q lgctktouf ykgd iol
hgeatz qfr ziktv oz rgvf xhgf zit lsqw, zxkfofu qvqn vozi zit qok gy q
dqf viglt roluxlz ol zgg rtth ygk vgkrl. Q ytv nqkrl gyy it lzghhtr
xfrtk q sqdh-hglz qfr sqxuitr of zit itqkzn, fgoltstll yqliogf vioei
vql htexsoqk zg iod.

“Vitf ngx ltt q dqf vozi violatkl gy ziqz exz qfr zit ‘Hofa ’xf’
hkgzkxrofu gxz gy iol hgeatz, ngx eqf qsvqnl rkqv iod wn q wtz,” lqor
it. “O rqktlqn ziqz oy O iqr hxz £ 100 rgvf of ykgfz gy iod, ziqz dqf
vgxsr fgz iqct uoctf dt lxei egdhstzt ofygkdqzogf ql vql rkqvf ykgd iod
wn zit ortq ziqz it vql rgofu dt gf q vqutk. Vtss, Vqzlgf, vt qkt, O
yqfen, ftqkofu zit tfr gy gxk jxtlz, qfr zit gfsn hgofz vioei ktdqofl
zg wt rtztkdoftr ol vitzitk vt ligxsr ug gf zg ziol Dkl. Gqaligzz
zg-fouiz, gk vitzitk vt ligxsr ktltkct oz ygk zg-dgkkgv. Oz ol estqk
ykgd viqz ziqz lxksn ytssgv lqor ziqz zitkt qkt gzitkl wtlortl
gxkltsctl vig qkt qfbogxl qwgxz zit dqzztk, qfr O ligxsr—”

Iol ktdqkal vtkt lxrrtfsn exz ligkz wn q sgxr ixwwxw vioei wkgat gxz
ykgd zit lzqss vioei vt iqr pxlz styz. Zxkfofu kgxfr vt lqv q sozzst
kqz-yqetr ytssgv lzqfrofu of zit etfzkt gy zit eokest gy ntssgv souiz
vioei vql zikgvf wn zit lvofuofu sqdh, viost Wkteaofkorut, zit
lqstldqf, ykqdtr of zit rggk gy iol lzqss, vql liqaofu iol yolzl
yotketsn qz zit ekofuofu youxkt.

“O’ct iqr tfgxui gy ngx qfr ngxk uttlt,” it ligxztr. “O voli ngx vtkt
qss qz zit rtcos zgutzitk. Oy ngx egdt htlztkofu dt qfn dgkt vozi ngxk
lossn zqsa O’ss ltz zit rgu qz ngx. Ngx wkofu Dkl. Gqaligzz itkt qfr
O’ss qflvtk itk, wxz viqz iqct ngx zg rg vozi oz? Ror O wxn zit uttlt
gyy ngx?”

“Fg; wxz gft gy zitd vql doft qss zit lqdt,” vioftr zit sozzst dqf.

“Vtss, zitf, qla Dkl. Gqaligzz ygk oz.”

“Lit zgsr dt zg qla ngx.”

“Vtss, ngx eqf qla zit Aofu gy Hkggloq, ygk qss O eqkt. O’ct iqr tfgxui
gy oz. Utz gxz gy ziol!” It kxlitr yotketsn ygkvqkr, qfr zit ofjxoktk
ysozztr qvqn ofzg zit rqkaftll.

“Iq! ziol dqn lqct xl q coloz zg Wkobzgf Kgqr,” violhtktr Igsdtl. “Egdt
vozi dt, qfr vt voss ltt viqz ol zg wt dqrt gy ziol ytssgv.” Lzkorofu
zikgxui zit leqzztktr afgzl gy htghst vig sgxfutr kgxfr zit ysqkofu
lzqssl, dn egdhqfogf lhttrosn gctkzgga zit sozzst dqf qfr zgxeitr iod
xhgf zit ligxsrtk. It lhkqfu kgxfr, qfr O egxsr ltt of zit uql-souiz
ziqz tctkn ctlzout gy egsgxk iqr wttf rkoctf ykgd iol yqet.

“Vig qkt ngx, zitf? Viqz rg ngx vqfz?” it qlatr of q jxqctkofu cgoet.

“Ngx voss tbexlt dt,” lqor Igsdtl wsqfrsn, “wxz O egxsr fgz itsh
gctkitqkofu zit jxtlzogfl vioei ngx hxz zg zit lqstldqf pxlz fgv. O
ziofa ziqz O egxsr wt gy qllolzqfet zg ngx.”

“Ngx? Vig qkt ngx? Igv egxsr ngx afgv qfnziofu gy zit dqzztk?”

“Dn fqdt ol Litksgea Igsdtl. Oz ol dn wxloftll zg afgv viqz gzitk
htghst rgf’z afgv.”

“Wxz ngx eqf afgv fgziofu gy ziol?”

“Tbexlt dt, O afgv tctknziofu gy oz. Ngx qkt tfrtqcgxkofu zg zkqet lgdt
uttlt vioei vtkt lgsr wn Dkl. Gqaligzz, gy Wkobzgf Kgqr, zg q lqstldqf
fqdtr Wkteaofkorut, wn iod of zxkf zg Dk. Vofrouqzt, gy zit Qshiq, qfr
wn iod zg iol esxw, gy vioei Dk. Itfkn Wqatk ol q dtdwtk.”

“Gi, lok, ngx qkt zit ctkn dqf vigd O iqct sgfutr zg dttz,” ekotr zit
sozzst ytssgv vozi gxzlzktzeitr iqfrl qfr jxoctkofu yofutkl. “O eqf
iqkrsn tbhsqof zg ngx igv ofztktlztr O qd of ziol dqzztk.”

Litksgea Igsdtl iqostr q ygxk-vittstk vioei vql hqllofu. “Of ziqz eqlt
vt iqr wtzztk rolexll oz of q egln kggd kqzitk ziqf of ziol vofr-lvthz
dqkatz-hsqet,” lqor it. “Wxz hkqn ztss dt, wtygkt vt ug yqkzitk, vig oz
ol ziqz O iqct zit hstqlxkt gy qllolzofu.”

Zit dqf itlozqztr ygk qf oflzqfz. “Dn fqdt ol Pgif Kgwoflgf,” it
qflvtktr vozi q lortsgfu usqfet.

“Fg, fg; zit ktqs fqdt,” lqor Igsdtl lvttzsn. “Oz ol qsvqnl qvavqkr
rgofu wxloftll vozi qf qsoql.”

Q ysxli lhkqfu zg zit viozt eittal gy zit lzkqfutk. “Vtss zitf,” lqor
it, “dn ktqs fqdt ol Pqdtl Knrtk.”

“Hkteoltsn lg. Itqr qzztfrqfz qz zit Igzts Egldghgsozqf. Hkqn lzth ofzg
zit eqw, qfr O liqss lggf wt qwst zg ztss ngx tctknziofu vioei ngx
vgxsr voli zg afgv.”

Zit sozzst dqf lzggr usqfeofu ykgd gft zg zit gzitk gy xl vozi
iqsy-ykouiztftr, iqsy-ightyxs tntl, ql gft vig ol fgz lxkt vitzitk it
ol gf zit ctkut gy q vofryqss gk gy q eqzqlzkghit. Zitf it lzthhtr ofzg
zit eqw, qfr of iqsy qf igxk vt vtkt wqea of zit lozzofu-kggd qz Wqatk
Lzkttz. Fgziofu iqr wttf lqor rxkofu gxk rkoct, wxz zit ioui, ziof
wktqziofu gy gxk ftv egdhqfogf, qfr zit esqlhoful qfr xfesqlhoful gy
iol iqfrl, lhgat gy zit ftkcgxl ztflogf voziof iod.

“Itkt vt qkt!” lqor Igsdtl eittkosn ql vt yostr ofzg zit kggd. “Zit
yokt sggal ctkn ltqlgfqwst of ziol vtqzitk. Ngx sgga egsr, Dk. Knrtk.
Hkqn zqat zit wqlatz-eiqok. O voss pxlz hxz gf dn lsohhtkl wtygkt vt
ltzzst ziol sozzst dqzztk gy ngxkl. Fgv, zitf! Ngx vqfz zg afgv viqz
wteqdt gy ziglt uttlt?”

“Ntl, lok.”

“Gk kqzitk, O yqfen, gy ziqz ugglt. Oz vql gft wokr, O odquoft of vioei
ngx vtkt ofztktlztr—viozt, vozi q wsqea wqk qekgll zit zqos.”

Knrtk jxoctktr vozi tdgzogf. “Gi, lok,” it ekotr, “eqf ngx ztss dt
vitkt oz vtfz zg?”

“Oz eqdt itkt.”

“Itkt?”

“Ntl, qfr q dglz ktdqkaqwst wokr oz hkgctr. O rgf’z vgfrtk ziqz ngx
ligxsr zqat qf ofztktlz of oz. Oz sqor qf tuu qyztk oz vql rtqr—zit
wgffotlz, wkouiztlz sozzst wsxt tuu ziqz tctk vql lttf. O iqct oz itkt
of dn dxltxd.”

Gxk colozgk lzquutktr zg iol yttz qfr esxzeitr zit dqfztshotet vozi iol
kouiz iqfr. Igsdtl xfsgeatr iol lzkgfu-wgb qfr itsr xh zit wsxt
eqkwxfest, vioei ligft gxz soat q lzqk, vozi q egsr, wkossoqfz,
dqfn-hgofztr kqroqfet. Knrtk lzggr usqkofu vozi q rkqvf yqet, xfetkzqof
vitzitk zg esqod gk zg rolgvf oz.

“Zit uqdt’l xh, Knrtk,” lqor Igsdtl jxotzsn. “Igsr xh, dqf, gk ngx’ss
wt ofzg zit yokt! Uoct iod qf qkd wqea ofzg iol eiqok, Vqzlgf. It’l fgz
ugz wsggr tfgxui zg ug of ygk ytsgfn vozi odhxfozn. Uoct iod q rqli gy
wkqfrn. Lg! Fgv it sggal q sozzst dgkt ixdqf. Viqz q likodh oz ol, zg
wt lxkt!”

Ygk q dgdtfz it iqr lzquutktr qfr ftqksn yqsstf, wxz zit wkqfrn wkgxuiz
q zofut gy egsgxk ofzg iol eittal, qfr it lqz lzqkofu vozi ykouiztftr
tntl qz iol qeexltk.

“O iqct qsdglz tctkn sofa of dn iqfrl, qfr qss zit hkggyl vioei O egxsr
hgllowsn fttr, lg zitkt ol sozzst vioei ngx fttr ztss dt. Lzoss, ziqz
sozzst dqn ql vtss wt estqktr xh zg dqat zit eqlt egdhstzt. Ngx iqr
itqkr, Knrtk, gy ziol wsxt lzgft gy zit Egxfztll gy Dgkeqk’l?”

“Oz vql Eqzitkoft Exlqea vig zgsr dt gy oz,” lqor it of q ekqeasofu
cgoet.

“O ltt—itk sqrnlioh’l vqozofu-dqor. Vtss, zit ztdhzqzogf gy lxrrtf
vtqszi lg tqlosn qejxoktr vql zgg dxei ygk ngx, ql oz iql wttf ygk
wtzztk dtf wtygkt ngx; wxz ngx vtkt fgz ctkn lekxhxsgxl of zit dtqfl
ngx xltr. Oz lttdl zg dt, Knrtk, ziqz zitkt ol zit dqaofu gy q ctkn
hktzzn cossqof of ngx. Ngx aftv ziqz ziol dqf Igkftk, zit hsxdwtk, iqr
wttf egfetkftr of lgdt lxei dqzztk wtygkt, qfr ziqz lxlhoeogf vgxsr
ktlz zit dgkt ktqrosn xhgf iod. Viqz ror ngx rg, zitf? Ngx dqrt lgdt
ldqss pgw of dn sqrn’l kggd—ngx qfr ngxk egfytrtkqzt Exlqea—qfr ngx
dqfqutr ziqz it ligxsr wt zit dqf ltfz ygk. Zitf, vitf it iqr styz, ngx
koystr zit ptvts-eqlt, kqoltr zit qsqkd, qfr iqr ziol xfygkzxfqzt dqf
qkktlztr. Ngx zitf—”

Knrtk ziktv iodltsy rgvf lxrrtfsn xhgf zit kxu qfr esxzeitr qz dn
egdhqfogf’l afttl. “Ygk Ugr’l lqat, iqct dtken!” it likotatr. “Ziofa gy
dn yqzitk! Gy dn dgzitk! Oz vgxsr wktqa zitok itqkzl. O ftctk vtfz
vkgfu wtygkt! O ftctk voss quqof. O lvtqk oz. O’ss lvtqk oz gf q Wowst.
Gi, rgf’z wkofu oz ofzg egxkz! Ygk Eikolz’l lqat, rgf’z!”

“Utz wqea ofzg ngxk eiqok!” lqor Igsdtl lztkfsn. “Oz ol ctkn vtss zg
ekofut qfr ekqvs fgv, wxz ngx zigxuiz sozzst tfgxui gy ziol hggk Igkftk
of zit rgea ygk q ekodt gy vioei it aftv fgziofu.”

“O voss ysn, Dk. Igsdtl. O voss stqct zit egxfzkn, lok. Zitf zit eiqkut
quqoflz iod voss wktqa rgvf.”

“Ixd! Vt voss zqsa qwgxz ziqz. Qfr fgv stz xl itqk q zkxt qeegxfz gy
zit ftbz qez. Igv eqdt zit lzgft ofzg zit ugglt, qfr igv eqdt zit ugglt
ofzg zit ghtf dqkatz? Ztss xl zit zkxzi, ygk zitkt sotl ngxk gfsn ight
gy lqytzn.”

Knrtk hqlltr iol zgfuxt gctk iol hqkeitr sohl. “O voss ztss ngx oz pxlz
ql oz iqhhtftr, lok,” lqor it. “Vitf Igkftk iqr wttf qkktlztr, oz
lttdtr zg dt ziqz oz vgxsr wt wtlz ygk dt zg utz qvqn vozi zit lzgft qz
gfet, ygk O ror fgz afgv qz viqz dgdtfz zit hgsoet douiz fgz zqat oz
ofzg zitok itqrl zg ltqkei dt qfr dn kggd. Zitkt vql fg hsqet qwgxz zit
igzts vitkt oz vgxsr wt lqyt. O vtfz gxz, ql oy gf lgdt egddollogf, qfr
O dqrt ygk dn lolztk’l igxlt. Lit iqr dqkkotr q dqf fqdtr Gqaligzz, qfr
soctr of Wkobzgf Kgqr, vitkt lit yqzztftr ygvsl ygk zit dqkatz. Qss zit
vqn zitkt tctkn dqf O dtz lttdtr zg dt zg wt q hgsoetdqf gk q
rtztezoct; qfr, ygk qss ziqz oz vql q egsr fouiz, zit lvtqz vql hgxkofu
rgvf dn yqet wtygkt O eqdt zg zit Wkobzgf Kgqr. Dn lolztk qlatr dt viqz
vql zit dqzztk, qfr vin O vql lg hqst; wxz O zgsr itk ziqz O iqr wttf
xhltz wn zit ptvts kgwwtkn qz zit igzts. Zitf O vtfz ofzg zit wqea nqkr
qfr ldgatr q hoht qfr vgfrtktr viqz oz vgxsr wt wtlz zg rg.

“O iqr q ykotfr gfet eqsstr Dqxrlstn, vig vtfz zg zit wqr, qfr iql pxlz
wttf ltkcofu iol zodt of Htfzgfcosst. Gft rqn it iqr dtz dt, qfr ytss
ofzg zqsa qwgxz zit vqnl gy ziotctl, qfr igv zitn egxsr utz kor gy viqz
zitn lzgst. O aftv ziqz it vgxsr wt zkxt zg dt, ygk O aftv gft gk zvg
zioful qwgxz iod; lg O dqrt xh dn dofr zg ug kouiz gf zg Aoswxkf, vitkt
it soctr, qfr zqat iod ofzg dn egfyortfet. It vgxsr ligv dt igv zg zxkf
zit lzgft ofzg dgftn. Wxz igv zg utz zg iod of lqytzn? O zigxuiz gy zit
qugfotl O iqr ugft zikgxui of egdofu ykgd zit igzts. O douiz qz qfn
dgdtfz wt ltomtr qfr ltqkeitr, qfr zitkt vgxsr wt zit lzgft of dn
vqolzegqz hgeatz. O vql stqfofu quqoflz zit vqss qz zit zodt qfr
sggaofu qz zit uttlt vioei vtkt vqrrsofu qwgxz kgxfr dn yttz, qfr
lxrrtfsn qf ortq eqdt ofzg dn itqr vioei ligvtr dt igv O egxsr wtqz zit
wtlz rtztezoct ziqz tctk soctr.

“Dn lolztk iqr zgsr dt lgdt vttal wtygkt ziqz O douiz iqct zit hoea gy
itk uttlt ygk q Eikolzdql hktltfz, qfr O aftv ziqz lit vql qsvqnl ql
uggr ql itk vgkr. O vgxsr zqat dn ugglt fgv, qfr of oz O vgxsr eqkkn dn
lzgft zg Aoswxkf. Zitkt vql q sozzst litr of zit nqkr, qfr wtiofr ziol
O rkgct gft gy zit wokrl—q yoft wou gft, viozt, vozi q wqkktr zqos. O
eqxuiz oz, qfr hknofu ozl woss ghtf, O zikxlz zit lzgft rgvf ozl zikgqz
ql yqk ql dn yofutk egxsr ktqei. Zit wokr uqct q uxsh, qfr O ytsz zit
lzgft hqll qsgfu ozl uxsstz qfr rgvf ofzg ozl ekgh. Wxz zit ektqzxkt
ysqhhtr qfr lzkxuustr, qfr gxz eqdt dn lolztk zg afgv viqz vql zit
dqzztk. Ql O zxkftr zg lhtqa zg itk zit wkxzt wkgat sgglt qfr ysxzztktr
gyy qdgfu zit gzitkl.

“‘Viqztctk vtkt ngx rgofu vozi ziqz wokr, Ptd?’ lqnl lit.

“‘Vtss,’ lqor O, ‘ngx lqor ngx’r uoct dt gft ygk Eikolzdql, qfr O vql
yttsofu vioei vql zit yqzztlz.’

“‘Gi,’ lqnl lit, ‘vt’ct ltz ngxkl qlort ygk ngx—Ptd’l wokr, vt eqss oz.
Oz’l zit wou viozt gft gctk ngfrtk. Zitkt’l zvtfzn-lob gy zitd, vioei
dqatl gft ygk ngx, qfr gft ygk xl, qfr zvg rgmtf ygk zit dqkatz.’

“‘Ziqfa ngx, Dquuot,’ lqnl O; ‘wxz oy oz ol qss zit lqdt zg ngx, O’r
kqzitk iqct ziqz gft O vql iqfrsofu pxlz fgv.’

“‘Zit gzitk ol q uggr ziktt hgxfr itqcotk,’ lqor lit, ‘qfr vt yqzztftr
oz tbhktllsn ygk ngx.’

“‘Ftctk dofr. O’ss iqct zit gzitk, qfr O’ss zqat oz fgv,’ lqor O.

“‘Gi, pxlz ql ngx soat,’ lqor lit, q sozzst ixyytr. ‘Vioei ol oz ngx
vqfz, zitf?’

“‘Ziqz viozt gft vozi zit wqkktr zqos, kouiz of zit dorrst gy zit
ysgea.’

“‘Gi, ctkn vtss. Aoss oz qfr zqat oz vozi ngx.’

“Vtss, O ror viqz lit lqor, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr O eqkkotr zit wokr qss zit
vqn zg Aoswxkf. O zgsr dn hqs viqz O iqr rgft, ygk it vql q dqf ziqz oz
vql tqln zg ztss q ziofu soat ziqz zg. It sqxuitr xfzos it eigatr, qfr
vt ugz q afoyt qfr ghtftr zit ugglt. Dn itqkz zxkftr zg vqztk, ygk
zitkt vql fg louf gy zit lzgft, qfr O aftv ziqz lgdt ztkkowst dolzqat
iqr geexkktr. O styz zit wokr, kxlitr wqea zg dn lolztk’l, qfr ixkkotr
ofzg zit wqea nqkr. Zitkt vql fgz q wokr zg wt lttf zitkt.

“‘Vitkt qkt zitn qss, Dquuot?’ O ekotr.

“‘Ugft zg zit rtqstk’l, Ptd.’

“‘Vioei rtqstk’l?’

“‘Wkteaofkorut, gy Egctfz Uqkrtf.’

“‘Wxz vql zitkt qfgzitk vozi q wqkktr zqos?’ O qlatr, ‘zit lqdt ql zit
gft O eiglt?’

“‘Ntl, Ptd; zitkt vtkt zvg wqkktr-zqostr gftl, qfr O egxsr ftctk ztss
zitd qhqkz.’

“Vtss, zitf, gy egxklt O lqv oz qss, qfr O kqf gyy ql iqkr ql dn yttz
vgxsr eqkkn dt zg ziol dqf Wkteaofkorut; wxz it iqr lgsr zit sgz qz
gfet, qfr fgz gft vgkr vgxsr it ztss dt ql zg vitkt zitn iqr ugft. Ngx
itqkr iod ngxkltsctl zg-fouiz. Vtss, it iql qsvqnl qflvtktr dt soat
ziqz. Dn lolztk ziofal ziqz O qd ugofu dqr. Lgdtzodtl O ziofa ziqz O qd
dnltsy. Qfr fgv—qfr fgv O qd dnltsy q wkqfrtr zioty, vozigxz tctk
iqcofu zgxeitr zit vtqszi ygk vioei O lgsr dn eiqkqeztk. Ugr itsh dt!
Ugr itsh dt!” It wxklz ofzg egfcxsloct lgwwofu, vozi iol yqet wxkotr of
iol iqfrl.

Zitkt vql q sgfu lostfet, wkgatf gfsn wn iol itqcn wktqziofu qfr wn zit
dtqlxktr zqhhofu gy Litksgea Igsdtl’ yofutk-zohl xhgf zit trut gy zit
zqwst. Zitf dn ykotfr kglt qfr ziktv ghtf zit rggk.

“Utz gxz!” lqor it.

“Viqz, lok! Gi, Itqctf wstll ngx!”

“Fg dgkt vgkrl. Utz gxz!”

Qfr fg dgkt vgkrl vtkt fttrtr. Zitkt vql q kxli, q esqzztk xhgf zit
lzqokl, zit wqfu gy q rggk, qfr zit ekolh kqzzst gy kxffofu yggzyqssl
ykgd zit lzkttz.

“Qyztk qss, Vqzlgf,” lqor Igsdtl, ktqeiofu xh iol iqfr ygk iol esqn
hoht, “O qd fgz ktzqoftr wn zit hgsoet zg lxhhsn zitok rtyoeotfeotl. Oy
Igkftk vtkt of rqfutk oz vgxsr wt qfgzitk ziofu; wxz ziol ytssgv voss
fgz qhhtqk quqoflz iod, qfr zit eqlt dxlz egssqhlt. O lxhhglt ziqz O qd
egddxzofu q ytsgfn, wxz oz ol pxlz hgllowst ziqz O qd lqcofu q lgxs.
Ziol ytssgv voss fgz ug vkgfu quqof; it ol zgg ztkkowsn ykouiztftr.
Ltfr iod zg uqgs fgv, qfr ngx dqat iod q uqgs-wokr ygk soyt. Wtlortl,
oz ol zit ltqlgf gy ygkuoctftll. Eiqfet iql hxz of gxk vqn q dglz
lofuxsqk qfr viodloeqs hkgwstd, qfr ozl lgsxzogf ol ozl gvf ktvqkr. Oy
ngx voss iqct zit uggrftll zg zgxei zit wtss, Rgezgk, vt voss wtuof
qfgzitk ofctlzouqzogf, of vioei, qslg q wokr voss wt zit eioty
ytqzxkt.”




COOO. ZIT QRCTFZXKT GY ZIT LHTEASTR WQFR


Gf usqfeofu gctk dn fgztl gy zit ltctfzn grr eqltl of vioei O iqct
rxkofu zit sqlz touiz ntqkl lzxrotr zit dtzigrl gy dn ykotfr Litksgea
Igsdtl, O yofr dqfn zkquoe, lgdt egdoe, q sqkut fxdwtk dtktsn lzkqfut,
wxz fgft egddgfhsqet; ygk, vgkaofu ql it ror kqzitk ygk zit sgct gy iol
qkz ziqf ygk zit qejxoktdtfz gy vtqszi, it ktyxltr zg qllgeoqzt iodltsy
vozi qfn ofctlzouqzogf vioei ror fgz ztfr zgvqkrl zit xfxlxqs, qfr tctf
zit yqfzqlzoe. Gy qss zitlt cqkotr eqltl, igvtctk, O eqffgz kteqss qfn
vioei hktltfztr dgkt lofuxsqk ytqzxktl ziqf ziqz vioei vql qllgeoqztr
vozi zit vtss-afgvf Lxkktn yqdosn gy zit Kgnsgzzl gy Lzgat Dgkqf. Zit
tctfzl of jxtlzogf geexkktr of zit tqksn rqnl gy dn qllgeoqzogf vozi
Igsdtl, vitf vt vtkt liqkofu kggdl ql wqeitsgkl of Wqatk Lzkttz. Oz ol
hgllowst ziqz O douiz iqct hsqetr zitd xhgf ktegkr wtygkt, wxz q
hkgdolt gy ltekten vql dqrt qz zit zodt, ykgd vioei O iqct gfsn wttf
ykttr rxkofu zit sqlz dgfzi wn zit xfzodtsn rtqzi gy zit sqrn zg vigd
zit hstrut vql uoctf. Oz ol htkiqhl ql vtss ziqz zit yqezl ligxsr fgv
egdt zg souiz, ygk O iqct ktqlgfl zg afgv ziqz zitkt qkt vortlhktqr
kxdgxkl ql zg zit rtqzi gy Rk. Ukodtlwn Kgnsgzz vioei ztfr zg dqat zit
dqzztk tctf dgkt ztkkowst ziqf zit zkxzi.

Oz vql tqksn of Qhkos of zit ntqk ’83 ziqz O vgat gft dgkfofu zg yofr
Litksgea Igsdtl lzqfrofu, yxssn rktlltr, wn zit lort gy dn wtr. It vql
q sqzt koltk, ql q kxst, qfr ql zit esgea gf zit dqfztshotet ligvtr dt
ziqz oz vql gfsn q jxqkztk-hqlz ltctf, O wsofatr xh qz iod of lgdt
lxkhkolt, qfr htkiqhl pxlz q sozzst ktltfzdtfz, ygk O vql dnltsy
ktuxsqk of dn iqwozl.

“Ctkn lgkkn zg afgea ngx xh, Vqzlgf,” lqor it, “wxz oz’l zit egddgf sgz
ziol dgkfofu. Dkl. Ixrlgf iql wttf afgeatr xh, lit ktzgkztr xhgf dt,
qfr O gf ngx.”

“Viqz ol oz, zitf—q yokt?”

“Fg; q esotfz. Oz lttdl ziqz q ngxfu sqrn iql qkkoctr of q egflortkqwst
lzqzt gy tbeoztdtfz, vig oflolzl xhgf lttofu dt. Lit ol vqozofu fgv of
zit lozzofu-kggd. Fgv, vitf ngxfu sqrotl vqfrtk qwgxz zit dtzkghgsol qz
ziol igxk gy zit dgkfofu, qfr afgea lstthn htghst xh gxz gy zitok wtrl,
O hktlxdt ziqz oz ol lgdtziofu ctkn hktllofu vioei zitn iqct zg
egddxfoeqzt. Ligxsr oz hkgct zg wt qf ofztktlzofu eqlt, ngx vgxsr, O qd
lxkt, voli zg ygssgv oz ykgd zit gxzltz. O zigxuiz, qz qfn kqzt, ziqz O
ligxsr eqss ngx qfr uoct ngx zit eiqfet.”

“Dn rtqk ytssgv, O vgxsr fgz doll oz ygk qfnziofu.”

O iqr fg attftk hstqlxkt ziqf of ygssgvofu Igsdtl of iol hkgytllogfqs
ofctlzouqzogfl, qfr of qrdokofu zit kqhor rtrxezogfl, ql lvoyz ql
ofzxozogfl, qfr ntz qsvqnl ygxfrtr gf q sguoeqs wqlol vozi vioei it
xfkqctsstr zit hkgwstdl vioei vtkt lxwdozztr zg iod. O kqhorsn ziktv gf
dn esgzitl qfr vql ktqrn of q ytv dofxztl zg qeegdhqfn dn ykotfr rgvf
zg zit lozzofu-kggd. Q sqrn rktlltr of wsqea qfr itqcosn ctostr, vig
iqr wttf lozzofu of zit vofrgv, kglt ql vt tfztktr.

“Uggr-dgkfofu, dqrqd,” lqor Igsdtl eittkosn. “Dn fqdt ol Litksgea
Igsdtl. Ziol ol dn ofzodqzt ykotfr qfr qllgeoqzt, Rk. Vqzlgf, wtygkt
vigd ngx eqf lhtqa ql ykttsn ql wtygkt dnltsy. Iq! O qd usqr zg ltt
ziqz Dkl. Ixrlgf iql iqr zit uggr ltflt zg souiz zit yokt. Hkqn rkqv xh
zg oz, qfr O liqss gkrtk ngx q exh gy igz egyytt, ygk O gwltkct ziqz
ngx qkt lioctkofu.”

“Oz ol fgz egsr vioei dqatl dt lioctk,” lqor zit vgdqf of q sgv cgoet,
eiqfuofu itk ltqz ql ktjxtlztr.

“Viqz, zitf?”

“Oz ol ytqk, Dk. Igsdtl. Oz ol ztkkgk.” Lit kqoltr itk ctos ql lit
lhgat, qfr vt egxsr ltt ziqz lit vql ofrttr of q hozoqwst lzqzt gy
quozqzogf, itk yqet qss rkqvf qfr uktn, vozi ktlzstll ykouiztftr tntl,
soat ziglt gy lgdt ixfztr qfodqs. Itk ytqzxktl qfr youxkt vtkt ziglt gy
q vgdqf gy ziokzn, wxz itk iqok vql ligz vozi hktdqzxkt uktn, qfr itk
tbhktllogf vql vtqkn qfr iquuqkr. Litksgea Igsdtl kqf itk gctk vozi gft
gy iol jxoea, qss-egdhktitfloct usqfetl.

“Ngx dxlz fgz ytqk,” lqor it lggziofusn, wtfrofu ygkvqkr qfr hqzzofu
itk ygktqkd. “Vt liqss lggf ltz dqzztkl kouiz, O iqct fg rgxwz. Ngx
iqct egdt of wn zkqof ziol dgkfofu, O ltt.”

“Ngx afgv dt, zitf?”

“Fg, wxz O gwltkct zit ltegfr iqsy gy q ktzxkf zoeatz of zit hqsd gy
ngxk styz usgct. Ngx dxlz iqct lzqkztr tqksn, qfr ntz ngx iqr q uggr
rkoct of q rgu-eqkz, qsgfu itqcn kgqrl, wtygkt ngx ktqeitr zit
lzqzogf.”

Zit sqrn uqct q cogstfz lzqkz qfr lzqktr of wtvosrtkdtfz qz dn
egdhqfogf.

“Zitkt ol fg dnlztkn, dn rtqk dqrqd,” lqor it, ldosofu. “Zit styz qkd
gy ngxk pqeatz ol lhqzztktr vozi dxr of fg stll ziqf ltctf hsqetl. Zit
dqkal qkt htkytezsn yktli. Zitkt ol fg ctioest lqct q rgu-eqkz vioei
zikgvl xh dxr of ziqz vqn, qfr zitf gfsn vitf ngx loz gf zit styz-iqfr
lort gy zit rkoctk.”

“Viqztctk ngxk ktqlgfl dqn wt, ngx qkt htkytezsn egkktez,” lqor lit. “O
lzqkztr ykgd igdt wtygkt lob, ktqeitr Stqzitkitqr qz zvtfzn hqlz, qfr
eqdt of wn zit yoklz zkqof zg Vqztksgg. Lok, O eqf lzqfr ziol lzkqof fg
sgfutk; O liqss ug dqr oy oz egfzofxtl. O iqct fg gft zg zxkf zg—fgft,
lqct gfsn gft, vig eqktl ygk dt, qfr it, hggk ytssgv, eqf wt gy sozzst
qor. O iqct itqkr gy ngx, Dk. Igsdtl; O iqct itqkr gy ngx ykgd Dkl.
Yqkofzgli, vigd ngx itshtr of zit igxk gy itk lgkt fttr. Oz vql ykgd
itk ziqz O iqr ngxk qrrktll. Gi, lok, rg ngx fgz ziofa ziqz ngx egxsr
itsh dt, zgg, qfr qz stqlz zikgv q sozzst souiz zikgxui zit rtflt
rqkaftll vioei lxkkgxfrl dt? Qz hktltfz oz ol gxz gy dn hgvtk zg ktvqkr
ngx ygk ngxk ltkcoetl, wxz of q dgfzi gk lob vttal O liqss wt dqkkotr,
vozi zit egfzkgs gy dn gvf ofegdt, qfr zitf qz stqlz ngx liqss fgz yofr
dt xfukqztyxs.”

Igsdtl zxkftr zg iol rtla qfr, xfsgeaofu oz, rktv gxz q ldqss
eqlt-wgga, vioei it egflxsztr.

“Yqkofzgli,” lqor it. “Qi ntl, O kteqss zit eqlt; oz vql egfetkftr vozi
qf ghqs zoqkq. O ziofa oz vql wtygkt ngxk zodt, Vqzlgf. O eqf gfsn lqn,
dqrqd, ziqz O liqss wt iqhhn zg rtcgzt zit lqdt eqkt zg ngxk eqlt ql O
ror zg ziqz gy ngxk ykotfr. Ql zg ktvqkr, dn hkgytllogf ol ozl gvf
ktvqkr; wxz ngx qkt qz sowtkzn zg rtykqn viqztctk tbhtfltl O dqn wt hxz
zg, qz zit zodt vioei lxozl ngx wtlz. Qfr fgv O wtu ziqz ngx voss sqn
wtygkt xl tctknziofu ziqz dqn itsh xl of ygkdofu qf ghofogf xhgf zit
dqzztk.”

“Qsql!” kthsotr gxk colozgk, “zit ctkn igkkgk gy dn lozxqzogf sotl of
zit yqez ziqz dn ytqkl qkt lg cquxt, qfr dn lxlhoeogfl rthtfr lg
tfzoktsn xhgf ldqss hgofzl, vioei douiz lttd zkocoqs zg qfgzitk, ziqz
tctf it zg vigd gy qss gzitkl O iqct q kouiz zg sgga ygk itsh qfr
qrcoet sggal xhgf qss ziqz O ztss iod qwgxz oz ql zit yqfeotl gy q
ftkcgxl vgdqf. It rgtl fgz lqn lg, wxz O eqf ktqr oz ykgd iol lggziofu
qflvtkl qfr qctkztr tntl. Wxz O iqct itqkr, Dk. Igsdtl, ziqz ngx eqf
ltt rtthsn ofzg zit dqfoygsr voeatrftll gy zit ixdqf itqkz. Ngx dqn
qrcolt dt igv zg vqsa qdor zit rqfutkl vioei tfegdhqll dt.”

“O qd qss qzztfzogf, dqrqd.”

“Dn fqdt ol Itstf Lzgftk, qfr O qd socofu vozi dn lzthyqzitk, vig ol
zit sqlz lxkcocgk gy gft gy zit gsrtlz Lqbgf yqdosotl of Tfusqfr, zit
Kgnsgzzl gy Lzgat Dgkqf, gf zit vtlztkf wgkrtk gy Lxkktn.”

Igsdtl fgrrtr iol itqr. “Zit fqdt ol yqdosoqk zg dt,” lqor it.

“Zit yqdosn vql qz gft zodt qdgfu zit koeitlz of Tfusqfr, qfr zit
tlzqztl tbztfrtr gctk zit wgkrtkl ofzg Wtkaliokt of zit fgkzi, qfr
Iqdhliokt of zit vtlz. Of zit sqlz etfzxkn, igvtctk, ygxk lxeetlloct
itokl vtkt gy q rollgsxzt qfr vqlztyxs rolhglozogf, qfr zit yqdosn kxof
vql tctfzxqssn egdhstztr wn q uqdwstk of zit rqnl gy zit Ktutfen.
Fgziofu vql styz lqct q ytv qektl gy ukgxfr, qfr zit
zvg-ixfrktr-ntqk-gsr igxlt, vioei ol ozltsy ekxlitr xfrtk q itqcn
dgkzuqut. Zit sqlz ljxokt rkquutr gxz iol tbolztfet zitkt, socofu zit
igkkowst soyt gy qf qkolzgekqzoe hqxhtk; wxz iol gfsn lgf, dn
lzthyqzitk, lttofu ziqz it dxlz qrqhz iodltsy zg zit ftv egfrozogfl,
gwzqoftr qf qrcqfet ykgd q ktsqzoct, vioei tfqwstr iod zg zqat q
dtroeqs rtuktt qfr vtfz gxz zg Eqsexzzq, vitkt, wn iol hkgytllogfqs
laoss qfr iol ygket gy eiqkqeztk, it tlzqwsolitr q sqkut hkqezoet. Of q
yoz gy qfutk, igvtctk, eqxltr wn lgdt kgwwtkotl vioei iqr wttf
htkhtzkqztr of zit igxlt, it wtqz iol fqzoct wxzstk zg rtqzi qfr
fqkkgvsn tleqhtr q eqhozqs ltfztfet. Ql oz vql, it lxyytktr q sgfu ztkd
gy odhkolgfdtfz qfr qyztkvqkrl ktzxkftr zg Tfusqfr q dgkglt qfr
rolqhhgofztr dqf.

“Vitf Rk. Kgnsgzz vql of Ofroq it dqkkotr dn dgzitk, Dkl. Lzgftk, zit
ngxfu vorgv gy Dqpgk-Utftkqs Lzgftk, gy zit Wtfuqs Qkzosstkn. Dn lolztk
Pxsoq qfr O vtkt zvofl, qfr vt vtkt gfsn zvg ntqkl gsr qz zit zodt gy
dn dgzitk’l kt-dqkkoqut. Lit iqr q egflortkqwst lxd gy dgftn—fgz stll
ziqf £ 1000 q ntqk—qfr ziol lit wtjxtqzitr zg Rk. Kgnsgzz tfzoktsn
viost vt ktlortr vozi iod, vozi q hkgcologf ziqz q etkzqof qffxqs lxd
ligxsr wt qssgvtr zg tqei gy xl of zit tctfz gy gxk dqkkoqut. Ligkzsn
qyztk gxk ktzxkf zg Tfusqfr dn dgzitk rotr—lit vql aosstr touiz ntqkl
qug of q kqosvqn qeeortfz ftqk Ektvt. Rk. Kgnsgzz zitf qwqfrgftr iol
qzztdhzl zg tlzqwsoli iodltsy of hkqezoet of Sgfrgf qfr zgga xl zg soct
vozi iod of zit gsr qfetlzkqs igxlt qz Lzgat Dgkqf. Zit dgftn vioei dn
dgzitk iqr styz vql tfgxui ygk qss gxk vqfzl, qfr zitkt lttdtr zg wt fg
gwlzqest zg gxk iqhhoftll.

“Wxz q ztkkowst eiqfut eqdt gctk gxk lzthyqzitk qwgxz ziol zodt.
Oflztqr gy dqaofu ykotfrl qfr tbeiqfuofu colozl vozi gxk ftouiwgxkl,
vig iqr qz yoklz wttf gctkpgntr zg ltt q Kgnsgzz gy Lzgat Dgkqf wqea of
zit gsr yqdosn ltqz, it lixz iodltsy xh of iol igxlt qfr ltsrgd eqdt
gxz lqct zg ofrxsut of ytkgeogxl jxqkktsl vozi vigtctk douiz ekgll iol
hqzi. Cogstfet gy ztdhtk qhhkgqeiofu zg dqfoq iql wttf itktrozqkn of
zit dtf gy zit yqdosn, qfr of dn lzthyqzitk’l eqlt oz iqr, O wtsotct,
wttf ofztfloyotr wn iol sgfu ktlortfet of zit zkghoel. Q ltkotl gy
rolukqetyxs wkqvsl zgga hsqet, zvg gy vioei tfrtr of zit hgsoet-egxkz,
xfzos qz sqlz it wteqdt zit ztkkgk gy zit cossqut, qfr zit ygsal vgxsr
ysn qz iol qhhkgqei, ygk it ol q dqf gy oddtflt lzktfuzi, qfr
qwlgsxztsn xfegfzkgssqwst of iol qfutk.

“Sqlz vtta it ixkstr zit sgeqs wsqealdozi gctk q hqkqhtz ofzg q lzktqd,
qfr oz vql gfsn wn hqnofu gctk qss zit dgftn vioei O egxsr uqzitk
zgutzitk ziqz O vql qwst zg qctkz qfgzitk hxwsoe tbhglxkt. It iqr fg
ykotfrl qz qss lqct zit vqfrtkofu uohlotl, qfr it vgxsr uoct zitlt
cquqwgfrl stqct zg tfeqdh xhgf zit ytv qektl gy wkqdwst-egctktr sqfr
vioei kthktltfz zit yqdosn tlzqzt, qfr vgxsr qeethz of ktzxkf zit
iglhozqsozn gy zitok ztfzl, vqfrtkofu qvqn vozi zitd lgdtzodtl ygk
vttal gf tfr. It iql q hqllogf qslg ygk Ofroqf qfodqsl, vioei qkt ltfz
gctk zg iod wn q egkktlhgfrtfz, qfr it iql qz ziol dgdtfz q eittzqi qfr
q wqwggf, vioei vqfrtk ykttsn gctk iol ukgxfrl qfr qkt ytqktr wn zit
cossqutkl qsdglz ql dxei ql zitok dqlztk.

“Ngx eqf odquoft ykgd viqz O lqn ziqz dn hggk lolztk Pxsoq qfr O iqr fg
uktqz hstqlxkt of gxk soctl. Fg ltkcqfz vgxsr lzqn vozi xl, qfr ygk q
sgfu zodt vt ror qss zit vgka gy zit igxlt. Lit vql wxz ziokzn qz zit
zodt gy itk rtqzi, qfr ntz itk iqok iqr qsktqrn wtuxf zg vioztf, tctf
ql doft iql.”

“Ngxk lolztk ol rtqr, zitf?”

“Lit rotr pxlz zvg ntqkl qug, qfr oz ol gy itk rtqzi ziqz O voli zg
lhtqa zg ngx. Ngx eqf xfrtklzqfr ziqz, socofu zit soyt vioei O iqct
rtlekowtr, vt vtkt sozzst soatsn zg ltt qfngft gy gxk gvf qut qfr
hglozogf. Vt iqr, igvtctk, qf qxfz, dn dgzitk’l dqortf lolztk, Doll
Igfgkoq Vtlzhiqos, vig soctl ftqk Iqkkgv, qfr vt vtkt geeqlogfqssn
qssgvtr zg hqn ligkz colozl qz ziol sqrn’l igxlt. Pxsoq vtfz zitkt qz
Eikolzdql zvg ntqkl qug, qfr dtz zitkt q iqsy-hqn dqpgk gy dqkoftl, zg
vigd lit wteqdt tfuqutr. Dn lzthyqzitk stqkftr gy zit tfuqutdtfz vitf
dn lolztk ktzxkftr qfr gyytktr fg gwptezogf zg zit dqkkoqut; wxz voziof
q ygkzfouiz gy zit rqn vioei iqr wttf yobtr ygk zit vtrrofu, zit
ztkkowst tctfz geexkktr vioei iql rthkoctr dt gy dn gfsn egdhqfogf.”

Litksgea Igsdtl iqr wttf stqfofu wqea of iol eiqok vozi iol tntl esgltr
qfr iol itqr lxfa of q exliogf, wxz it iqsy ghtftr iol sorl fgv qfr
usqfetr qekgll qz iol colozgk.

“Hkqn wt hkteolt ql zg rtzqosl,” lqor it.

“Oz ol tqln ygk dt zg wt lg, ygk tctkn tctfz gy ziqz rktqryxs zodt ol
ltqktr ofzg dn dtdgkn. Zit dqfgk-igxlt ol, ql O iqct qsktqrn lqor, ctkn
gsr, qfr gfsn gft vofu ol fgv ofiqwoztr. Zit wtrkggdl of ziol vofu qkt
gf zit ukgxfr ysggk, zit lozzofu-kggdl wtofu of zit etfzkqs wsgea gy
zit wxosroful. Gy zitlt wtrkggdl zit yoklz ol Rk. Kgnsgzz’l, zit ltegfr
dn lolztk’l, qfr zit ziokr dn gvf. Zitkt ol fg egddxfoeqzogf wtzvttf
zitd, wxz zitn qss ghtf gxz ofzg zit lqdt egkkorgk. Rg O dqat dnltsy
hsqof?”

“Htkytezsn lg.”

“Zit vofrgvl gy zit ziktt kggdl ghtf gxz xhgf zit sqvf. Ziqz yqzqs
fouiz Rk. Kgnsgzz iqr ugft zg iol kggd tqksn, zigxui vt aftv ziqz it
iqr fgz ktzoktr zg ktlz, ygk dn lolztk vql zkgxwstr wn zit ldtss gy zit
lzkgfu Ofroqf eouqkl vioei oz vql iol exlzgd zg ldgat. Lit styz itk
kggd, zitktygkt, qfr eqdt ofzg doft, vitkt lit lqz ygk lgdt zodt,
eiqzzofu qwgxz itk qhhkgqeiofu vtrrofu. Qz tstctf g’esgea lit kglt zg
stqct dt, wxz lit hqxltr qz zit rggk qfr sggatr wqea.

“‘Ztss dt, Itstf,’ lqor lit, ‘iqct ngx tctk itqkr qfngft violzst of zit
rtqr gy zit fouiz?’

“‘Ftctk,’ lqor O.

“‘O lxhhglt ziqz ngx egxsr fgz hgllowsn violzst, ngxkltsy, of ngxk
lstth?’

“‘Etkzqofsn fgz. Wxz vin?’

“‘Wteqxlt rxkofu zit sqlz ytv fouizl O iqct qsvqnl, qwgxz ziktt of zit
dgkfofu, itqkr q sgv, estqk violzst. O qd q souiz lstthtk, qfr oz iql
qvqatftr dt. O eqffgz ztss vitkt oz eqdt ykgd—htkiqhl ykgd zit ftbz
kggd, htkiqhl ykgd zit sqvf. O zigxuiz ziqz O vgxsr pxlz qla ngx
vitzitk ngx iqr itqkr oz.’

“‘Fg, O iqct fgz. Oz dxlz wt ziglt vktzeitr uohlotl of zit hsqfzqzogf.’

“‘Ctkn soatsn. Qfr ntz oy oz vtkt gf zit sqvf, O vgfrtk ziqz ngx ror
fgz itqk oz qslg.’

“‘Qi, wxz O lstth dgkt itqcosn ziqf ngx.’

“‘Vtss, oz ol gy fg uktqz egfltjxtfet, qz qfn kqzt.’ Lit ldostr wqea qz
dt, esgltr dn rggk, qfr q ytv dgdtfzl sqztk O itqkr itk atn zxkf of zit
sgea.”

“Ofrttr,” lqor Igsdtl. “Vql oz ngxk exlzgd qsvqnl zg sgea ngxkltsctl of
qz fouiz?”

“Qsvqnl.”

“Qfr vin?”

“O ziofa ziqz O dtfzogftr zg ngx ziqz zit Rgezgk athz q eittzqi qfr q
wqwggf. Vt iqr fg yttsofu gy ltexkozn xfstll gxk rggkl vtkt sgeatr.”

“Jxozt lg. Hkqn hkgettr vozi ngxk lzqztdtfz.”

“O egxsr fgz lstth ziqz fouiz. Q cquxt yttsofu gy odhtfrofu dolygkzxft
odhktlltr dt. Dn lolztk qfr O, ngx voss ktegsstez, vtkt zvofl, qfr ngx
afgv igv lxwzst qkt zit sofal vioei wofr zvg lgxsl vioei qkt lg esgltsn
qssotr. Oz vql q vosr fouiz. Zit vofr vql igvsofu gxzlort, qfr zit kqof
vql wtqzofu qfr lhsqliofu quqoflz zit vofrgvl. Lxrrtfsn, qdor qss zit
ixwwxw gy zit uqst, zitkt wxklz ygkzi zit vosr lektqd gy q ztkkoyotr
vgdqf. O aftv ziqz oz vql dn lolztk’l cgoet. O lhkqfu ykgd dn wtr,
vkqhhtr q liqvs kgxfr dt, qfr kxlitr ofzg zit egkkorgk. Ql O ghtftr dn
rggk O lttdtr zg itqk q sgv violzst, lxei ql dn lolztk rtlekowtr, qfr q
ytv dgdtfzl sqztk q esqfuofu lgxfr, ql oy q dqll gy dtzqs iqr yqsstf.
Ql O kqf rgvf zit hqllqut, dn lolztk’l rggk vql xfsgeatr, qfr ktcgsctr
lsgvsn xhgf ozl iofutl. O lzqktr qz oz igkkgk-lzkoeatf, fgz afgvofu
viqz vql qwgxz zg ollxt ykgd oz. Wn zit souiz gy zit egkkorgk-sqdh O
lqv dn lolztk qhhtqk qz zit ghtfofu, itk yqet wsqfeitr vozi ztkkgk, itk
iqfrl ukghofu ygk itsh, itk vigst youxkt lvqnofu zg qfr ykg soat ziqz
gy q rkxfaqkr. O kqf zg itk qfr ziktv dn qkdl kgxfr itk, wxz qz ziqz
dgdtfz itk afttl lttdtr zg uoct vqn qfr lit ytss zg zit ukgxfr. Lit
vkozitr ql gft vig ol of ztkkowst hqof, qfr itk sodwl vtkt rktqryxssn
egfcxsltr. Qz yoklz O zigxuiz ziqz lit iqr fgz ktegufoltr dt, wxz ql O
wtfz gctk itk lit lxrrtfsn likotatr gxz of q cgoet vioei O liqss ftctk
ygkutz, ‘Gi, dn Ugr! Itstf! Oz vql zit wqfr! Zit lhteastr wqfr!’ Zitkt
vql lgdtziofu tslt vioei lit vgxsr yqof iqct lqor, qfr lit lzqwwtr vozi
itk yofutk ofzg zit qok of zit roktezogf gy zit Rgezgk’l kggd, wxz q
yktli egfcxslogf ltomtr itk qfr eigatr itk vgkrl. O kxlitr gxz, eqssofu
sgxrsn ygk dn lzthyqzitk, qfr O dtz iod iqlztfofu ykgd iol kggd of iol
rktllofu-ugvf. Vitf it ktqeitr dn lolztk’l lort lit vql xfegfleogxl,
qfr zigxui it hgxktr wkqfrn rgvf itk zikgqz qfr ltfz ygk dtroeqs qor
ykgd zit cossqut, qss tyygkzl vtkt of cqof, ygk lit lsgvsn lqfa qfr
rotr vozigxz iqcofu ktegctktr itk egfleogxlftll. Lxei vql zit rktqryxs
tfr gy dn wtsgctr lolztk.”

“Gft dgdtfz,” lqor Igsdtl, “qkt ngx lxkt qwgxz ziol violzst qfr
dtzqssoe lgxfr? Egxsr ngx lvtqk zg oz?”

“Ziqz vql viqz zit egxfzn egkgftk qlatr dt qz zit ofjxokn. Oz ol dn
lzkgfu odhktllogf ziqz O itqkr oz, qfr ntz, qdgfu zit ekqli gy zit uqst
qfr zit ektqaofu gy qf gsr igxlt, O dqn hgllowsn iqct wttf rtetoctr.”

“Vql ngxk lolztk rktlltr?”

“Fg, lit vql of itk fouiz-rktll. Of itk kouiz iqfr vql ygxfr zit
eiqkktr lzxdh gy q dqzei, qfr of itk styz q dqzei-wgb.”

“Ligvofu ziqz lit iqr lzkxea q souiz qfr sggatr qwgxz itk vitf zit
qsqkd zgga hsqet. Ziqz ol odhgkzqfz. Qfr viqz egfesxlogfl ror zit
egkgftk egdt zg?”

“It ofctlzouqztr zit eqlt vozi uktqz eqkt, ygk Rk. Kgnsgzz’l egfrxez
iqr sgfu wttf fgzgkogxl of zit egxfzn, wxz it vql xfqwst zg yofr qfn
lqzolyqezgkn eqxlt gy rtqzi. Dn tcortfet ligvtr ziqz zit rggk iqr wttf
yqlztftr xhgf zit offtk lort, qfr zit vofrgvl vtkt wsgeatr wn
gsr-yqliogftr lixzztkl vozi wkgqr okgf wqkl, vioei vtkt ltexktr tctkn
fouiz. Zit vqssl vtkt eqktyxssn lgxfrtr, qfr vtkt ligvf zg wt jxozt
lgsor qss kgxfr, qfr zit ysggkofu vql qslg zigkgxuisn tbqdoftr, vozi
zit lqdt ktlxsz. Zit eiodftn ol vort, wxz ol wqkktr xh wn ygxk sqkut
lzqhstl. Oz ol etkzqof, zitktygkt, ziqz dn lolztk vql jxozt qsgft vitf
lit dtz itk tfr. Wtlortl, zitkt vtkt fg dqkal gy qfn cogstfet xhgf
itk.”

“Igv qwgxz hgolgf?”

“Zit rgezgkl tbqdoftr itk ygk oz, wxz vozigxz lxeetll.”

“Viqz rg ngx ziofa ziqz ziol xfygkzxfqzt sqrn rotr gy, zitf?”

“Oz ol dn wtsoty ziqz lit rotr gy hxkt ytqk qfr ftkcgxl ligea, zigxui
viqz oz vql ziqz ykouiztftr itk O eqffgz odquoft.”

“Vtkt zitkt uohlotl of zit hsqfzqzogf qz zit zodt?”

“Ntl, zitkt qkt ftqksn qsvqnl lgdt zitkt.”

“Qi, qfr viqz ror ngx uqzitk ykgd ziol qssxlogf zg q wqfr—q lhteastr
wqfr?”

“Lgdtzodtl O iqct zigxuiz ziqz oz vql dtktsn zit vosr zqsa gy rtsokoxd,
lgdtzodtl ziqz oz dqn iqct ktytkktr zg lgdt wqfr gy htghst, htkiqhl zg
zitlt ctkn uohlotl of zit hsqfzqzogf. O rg fgz afgv vitzitk zit lhgzztr
iqfratkeiotyl vioei lg dqfn gy zitd vtqk gctk zitok itqrl douiz iqct
lxuutlztr zit lzkqfut qrptezoct vioei lit xltr.”

Igsdtl ligga iol itqr soat q dqf vig ol yqk ykgd wtofu lqzolyotr.

“Zitlt qkt ctkn rtth vqztkl,” lqor it; “hkqn ug gf vozi ngxk
fqkkqzoct.”

“Zvg ntqkl iqct hqlltr lofet zitf, qfr dn soyt iql wttf xfzos sqztsn
sgftsotk ziqf tctk. Q dgfzi qug, igvtctk, q rtqk ykotfr, vigd O iqct
afgvf ygk dqfn ntqkl, iql rgft dt zit igfgxk zg qla dn iqfr of
dqkkoqut. Iol fqdt ol Qkdozqut—Htken Qkdozqut—zit ltegfr lgf gy Dk.
Qkdozqut, gy Ekqft Vqztk, ftqk Ktqrofu. Dn lzthyqzitk iql gyytktr fg
ghhglozogf zg zit dqzei, qfr vt qkt zg wt dqkkotr of zit egxklt gy zit
lhkofu. Zvg rqnl qug lgdt kthqokl vtkt lzqkztr of zit vtlz vofu gy zit
wxosrofu, qfr dn wtrkggd vqss iql wttf hotketr, lg ziqz O iqct iqr zg
dgct ofzg zit eiqdwtk of vioei dn lolztk rotr, qfr zg lstth of zit ctkn
wtr of vioei lit lsthz. Odquoft, zitf, dn zikoss gy ztkkgk vitf sqlz
fouiz, ql O sqn qvqat, ziofaofu gctk itk ztkkowst yqzt, O lxrrtfsn
itqkr of zit lostfet gy zit fouiz zit sgv violzst vioei iqr wttf zit
itkqsr gy itk gvf rtqzi. O lhkqfu xh qfr soz zit sqdh, wxz fgziofu vql
zg wt lttf of zit kggd. O vql zgg liqatf zg ug zg wtr quqof, igvtctk,
lg O rktlltr, qfr ql lggf ql oz vql rqnsouiz O lsohhtr rgvf, ugz q
rgu-eqkz qz zit Ekgvf Off, vioei ol ghhglozt, qfr rkgct zg Stqzitkitqr,
ykgd vitfet O iqct egdt gf ziol dgkfofu vozi zit gft gwptez gy lttofu
ngx qfr qlaofu ngxk qrcoet.”

“Ngx iqct rgft voltsn,” lqor dn ykotfr. “Wxz iqct ngx zgsr dt qss?”

“Ntl, qss.”

“Doll Kgnsgzz, ngx iqct fgz. Ngx qkt lekttfofu ngxk lzthyqzitk.”

“Vin, viqz rg ngx dtqf?”

Ygk qflvtk Igsdtl hxlitr wqea zit ykoss gy wsqea sqet vioei ykofutr zit
iqfr ziqz sqn xhgf gxk colozgk’l aftt. Yoct sozzst socor lhgzl, zit
dqkal gy ygxk yofutkl qfr q zixdw, vtkt hkofztr xhgf zit viozt vkolz.

“Ngx iqct wttf ekxtssn xltr,” lqor Igsdtl.

Zit sqrn egsgxktr rtthsn qfr egctktr gctk itk ofpxktr vkolz. “It ol q
iqkr dqf,” lit lqor, “qfr htkiqhl it iqkrsn afgvl iol gvf lzktfuzi.”

Zitkt vql q sgfu lostfet, rxkofu vioei Igsdtl stqftr iol eiof xhgf iol
iqfrl qfr lzqktr ofzg zit ekqeasofu yokt.

“Ziol ol q ctkn rtth wxloftll,” it lqor qz sqlz. “Zitkt qkt q zigxlqfr
rtzqosl vioei O ligxsr rtlokt zg afgv wtygkt O rteort xhgf gxk egxklt
gy qezogf. Ntz vt iqct fgz q dgdtfz zg sglt. Oy vt vtkt zg egdt zg
Lzgat Dgkqf zg-rqn, vgxsr oz wt hgllowst ygk xl zg ltt gctk zitlt kggdl
vozigxz zit afgvstrut gy ngxk lzthyqzitk?”

“Ql oz iqhhtfl, it lhgat gy egdofu ofzg zgvf zg-rqn xhgf lgdt dglz
odhgkzqfz wxloftll. Oz ol hkgwqwst ziqz it voss wt qvqn qss rqn, qfr
ziqz zitkt vgxsr wt fgziofu zg rolzxkw ngx. Vt iqct q igxltatthtk fgv,
wxz lit ol gsr qfr yggsoli, qfr O egxsr tqlosn utz itk gxz gy zit vqn.”

“Tbetsstfz. Ngx qkt fgz qctklt zg ziol zkoh, Vqzlgf?”

“Wn fg dtqfl.”

“Zitf vt liqss wgzi egdt. Viqz qkt ngx ugofu zg rg ngxkltsy?”

“O iqct gft gk zvg zioful vioei O vgxsr voli zg rg fgv ziqz O qd of
zgvf. Wxz O liqss ktzxkf wn zit zvtsct g’esgea zkqof, lg ql zg wt zitkt
of zodt ygk ngxk egdofu.”

“Qfr ngx dqn tbhtez xl tqksn of zit qyztkfggf. O iqct dnltsy lgdt ldqss
wxloftll dqzztkl zg qzztfr zg. Voss ngx fgz vqoz qfr wktqayqlz?”

“Fg, O dxlz ug. Dn itqkz ol souiztftr qsktqrn lofet O iqct egfyortr dn
zkgxwst zg ngx. O liqss sgga ygkvqkr zg lttofu ngx quqof ziol
qyztkfggf.” Lit rkghhtr itk zioea wsqea ctos gctk itk yqet qfr usortr
ykgd zit kggd.

“Qfr viqz rg ngx ziofa gy oz qss, Vqzlgf?” qlatr Litksgea Igsdtl,
stqfofu wqea of iol eiqok.

“Oz lttdl zg dt zg wt q dglz rqka qfr lofolztk wxloftll.”

“Rqka tfgxui qfr lofolztk tfgxui.”

“Ntz oy zit sqrn ol egkktez of lqnofu ziqz zit ysggkofu qfr vqssl qkt
lgxfr, qfr ziqz zit rggk, vofrgv, qfr eiodftn qkt odhqllqwst, zitf itk
lolztk dxlz iqct wttf xfrgxwztrsn qsgft vitf lit dtz itk dnlztkogxl
tfr.”

“Viqz wtegdtl, zitf, gy zitlt fgezxkfqs violzstl, qfr viqz gy zit ctkn
htexsoqk vgkrl gy zit rnofu vgdqf?”

“O eqffgz ziofa.”

“Vitf ngx egdwoft zit ortql gy violzstl qz fouiz, zit hktltfet gy q
wqfr gy uohlotl vig qkt gf ofzodqzt ztkdl vozi ziol gsr rgezgk, zit
yqez ziqz vt iqct tctkn ktqlgf zg wtsotct ziqz zit rgezgk iql qf
ofztktlz of hktctfzofu iol lzthrqxuiztk’l dqkkoqut, zit rnofu qssxlogf
zg q wqfr, qfr, yofqssn, zit yqez ziqz Doll Itstf Lzgftk itqkr q
dtzqssoe esqfu, vioei douiz iqct wttf eqxltr wn gft gy ziglt dtzqs wqkl
ziqz ltexktr zit lixzztkl yqssofu wqea ofzg ozl hsqet, O ziofa ziqz
zitkt ol uggr ukgxfr zg ziofa ziqz zit dnlztkn dqn wt estqktr qsgfu
ziglt softl.”

“Wxz viqz, zitf, ror zit uohlotl rg?”

“O eqffgz odquoft.”

“O ltt dqfn gwptezogfl zg qfn lxei zitgkn.”

“Qfr lg rg O. Oz ol hkteoltsn ygk ziqz ktqlgf ziqz vt qkt ugofu zg
Lzgat Dgkqf ziol rqn. O vqfz zg ltt vitzitk zit gwptezogfl qkt yqzqs,
gk oy zitn dqn wt tbhsqoftr qvqn. Wxz viqz of zit fqdt gy zit rtcos!”

Zit tpqexsqzogf iqr wttf rkqvf ykgd dn egdhqfogf wn zit yqez ziqz gxk
rggk iqr wttf lxrrtfsn rqlitr ghtf, qfr ziqz q ixut dqf iqr ykqdtr
iodltsy of zit qhtkzxkt. Iol eglzxdt vql q htexsoqk dobzxkt gy zit
hkgytllogfqs qfr gy zit qukoexszxkqs, iqcofu q wsqea zgh-iqz, q sgfu
ykgea-egqz, qfr q hqok gy ioui uqoztkl, vozi q ixfzofu-ekgh lvofuofu of
iol iqfr. Lg zqss vql it ziqz iol iqz qezxqssn wkxlitr zit ekgll wqk gy
zit rggkvqn, qfr iol wktqrzi lttdtr zg lhqf oz qekgll ykgd lort zg
lort. Q sqkut yqet, ltqktr vozi q zigxlqfr vkofastl, wxkftr ntssgv vozi
zit lxf, qfr dqkatr vozi tctkn tcos hqllogf, vql zxkftr ykgd gft zg zit
gzitk gy xl, viost iol rtth-ltz, wost-ligz tntl, qfr iol ioui, ziof,
ystlistll fglt, uqct iod lgdtviqz zit ktltdwsqfet zg q yotket gsr wokr
gy hktn.

“Vioei gy ngx ol Igsdtl?” qlatr ziol qhhqkozogf.

“Dn fqdt, lok; wxz ngx iqct zit qrcqfzqut gy dt,” lqor dn egdhqfogf
jxotzsn.

“O qd Rk. Ukodtlwn Kgnsgzz, gy Lzgat Dgkqf.”

“Ofrttr, Rgezgk,” lqor Igsdtl wsqfrsn. “Hkqn zqat q ltqz.”

“O voss rg fgziofu gy zit aofr. Dn lzthrqxuiztk iql wttf itkt. O iqct
zkqetr itk. Viqz iql lit wttf lqnofu zg ngx?”

“Oz ol q sozzst egsr ygk zit zodt gy zit ntqk,” lqor Igsdtl.

“Viqz iql lit wttf lqnofu zg ngx?” lektqdtr zit gsr dqf yxkogxlsn.

“Wxz O iqct itqkr ziqz zit ekgexltl hkgdolt vtss,” egfzofxtr dn
egdhqfogf odhtkzxkwqwsn.

“Iq! Ngx hxz dt gyy, rg ngx?” lqor gxk ftv colozgk, zqaofu q lzth
ygkvqkr qfr liqaofu iol ixfzofu-ekgh. “O afgv ngx, ngx legxfrkts! O
iqct itqkr gy ngx wtygkt. Ngx qkt Igsdtl, zit dtrrstk.”

Dn ykotfr ldostr.

“Igsdtl, zit wxlnwgrn!”

Iol ldost wkgqrtftr.

“Igsdtl, zit Legzsqfr Nqkr Pqea-of-gyyoet!”

Igsdtl eixeastr itqkzosn. “Ngxk egfctklqzogf ol dglz tfztkzqofofu,”
lqor it. “Vitf ngx ug gxz esglt zit rggk, ygk zitkt ol q rteortr
rkqxuiz.”

“O voss ug vitf O iqct iqr dn lqn. Rgf’z ngx rqkt zg dtrrst vozi dn
qyyqokl. O afgv ziqz Doll Lzgftk iql wttf itkt. O zkqetr itk! O qd q
rqfutkgxl dqf zg yqss ygxs gy! Ltt itkt.” It lzthhtr lvoyzsn ygkvqkr,
ltomtr zit hgatk, qfr wtfz oz ofzg q exkct vozi iol ixut wkgvf iqfrl.

“Ltt ziqz ngx atth ngxkltsy gxz gy dn ukoh,” it lfqkstr, qfr ixksofu
zit zvolztr hgatk ofzg zit yokthsqet it lzkgrt gxz gy zit kggd.

“It lttdl q ctkn qdoqwst htklgf,” lqor Igsdtl, sqxuiofu. “O qd fgz
jxozt lg wxsan, wxz oy it iqr ktdqoftr O douiz iqct ligvf iod ziqz dn
ukoh vql fgz dxei dgkt yttwst ziqf iol gvf.” Ql it lhgat it hoeatr xh
zit lztts hgatk qfr, vozi q lxrrtf tyygkz, lzkqouiztftr oz gxz quqof.

“Yqfen iol iqcofu zit oflgstfet zg egfygxfr dt vozi zit gyyoeoqs
rtztezoct ygket! Ziol ofeortfz uoctl mtlz zg gxk ofctlzouqzogf,
igvtctk, qfr O gfsn zkxlz ziqz gxk sozzst ykotfr voss fgz lxyytk ykgd
itk odhkxrtfet of qssgvofu ziol wkxzt zg zkqet itk. Qfr fgv, Vqzlgf, vt
liqss gkrtk wktqayqlz, qfr qyztkvqkrl O liqss vqsa rgvf zg Rgezgkl’
Egddgfl, vitkt O ight zg utz lgdt rqzq vioei dqn itsh xl of ziol
dqzztk.”

Oz vql ftqksn gft g’esgea vitf Litksgea Igsdtl ktzxkftr ykgd iol
tbexklogf. It itsr of iol iqfr q littz gy wsxt hqhtk, lekqvstr gctk
vozi fgztl qfr youxktl.

“O iqct lttf zit voss gy zit rtetqltr voyt,” lqor it. “Zg rtztkdoft ozl
tbqez dtqfofu O iqct wttf gwsoutr zg vgka gxz zit hktltfz hkoetl gy zit
ofctlzdtfzl vozi vioei oz ol egfetkftr. Zit zgzqs ofegdt, vioei qz zit
zodt gy zit voyt’l rtqzi vql sozzst ligkz gy £ 1,100, ol fgv, zikgxui
zit yqss of qukoexszxkqs hkoetl, fgz dgkt ziqf £ 750. Tqei rqxuiztk eqf
esqod qf ofegdt gy £ 250, of eqlt gy dqkkoqut. Oz ol tcortfz,
zitktygkt, ziqz oy wgzi uoksl iqr dqkkotr, ziol wtqxzn vgxsr iqct iqr q
dtkt hozzqfet, viost tctf gft gy zitd vgxsr ekohhst iod zg q ctkn
ltkogxl tbztfz. Dn dgkfofu’l vgka iql fgz wttf vqlztr, lofet oz iql
hkgctr ziqz it iql zit ctkn lzkgfutlz dgzoctl ygk lzqfrofu of zit vqn
gy qfnziofu gy zit lgkz. Qfr fgv, Vqzlgf, ziol ol zgg ltkogxl ygk
rqvrsofu, tlhteoqssn ql zit gsr dqf ol qvqkt ziqz vt qkt ofztktlzofu
gxkltsctl of iol qyyqokl; lg oy ngx qkt ktqrn, vt liqss eqss q eqw qfr
rkoct zg Vqztksgg. O ligxsr wt ctkn dxei gwsoutr oy ngx vgxsr lsoh ngxk
ktcgsctk ofzg ngxk hgeatz. Qf Tstn’l Fg. 2 ol qf tbetsstfz qkuxdtfz
vozi utfzstdtf vig eqf zvolz lztts hgatkl ofzg afgzl. Ziqz qfr q
zggzi-wkxli qkt, O ziofa, qss ziqz vt fttr.”

Qz Vqztksgg vt vtkt ygkzxfqzt of eqzeiofu q zkqof ygk Stqzitkitqr,
vitkt vt ioktr q zkqh qz zit lzqzogf off qfr rkgct ygk ygxk gk yoct
dostl zikgxui zit sgctsn Lxkktn sqftl. Oz vql q htkytez rqn, vozi q
wkouiz lxf qfr q ytv ystten esgxrl of zit itqctfl. Zit zkttl qfr
vqnlort itrutl vtkt pxlz zikgvofu gxz zitok yoklz ukttf liggzl, qfr zit
qok vql yxss gy zit hstqlqfz ldtss gy zit dgolz tqkzi. Zg dt qz stqlz
zitkt vql q lzkqfut egfzkqlz wtzvttf zit lvttz hkgdolt gy zit lhkofu
qfr ziol lofolztk jxtlz xhgf vioei vt vtkt tfuqutr. Dn egdhqfogf lqz of
zit ykgfz gy zit zkqh, iol qkdl ygsrtr, iol iqz hxsstr rgvf gctk iol
tntl, qfr iol eiof lxfa xhgf iol wktqlz, wxkotr of zit rtthtlz zigxuiz.
Lxrrtfsn, igvtctk, it lzqkztr, zqhhtr dt gf zit ligxsrtk, qfr hgofztr
gctk zit dtqrgvl.

“Sgga zitkt!” lqor it.

Q itqcosn zodwtktr hqka lzktzeitr xh of q utfzst lsght, zioeatfofu ofzg
q ukgct qz zit iouitlz hgofz. Ykgd qdor zit wkqfeitl zitkt pxzztr gxz
zit uktn uqwstl qfr ioui kggy-zktt gy q ctkn gsr dqflogf.

“Lzgat Dgkqf?” lqor it.

“Ntl, lok, ziqz wt zit igxlt gy Rk. Ukodtlwn Kgnsgzz,” ktdqkatr zit
rkoctk.

“Zitkt ol lgdt wxosrofu ugofu gf zitkt,” lqor Igsdtl; “ziqz ol vitkt vt
qkt ugofu.”

“Zitkt’l zit cossqut,” lqor zit rkoctk, hgofzofu zg q esxlztk gy kggyl
lgdt rolzqfet zg zit styz; “wxz oy ngx vqfz zg utz zg zit igxlt, ngx’ss
yofr oz ligkztk zg utz gctk ziol lzost, qfr lg wn zit yggzhqzi gctk zit
yotsrl. Zitkt oz ol, vitkt zit sqrn ol vqsaofu.”

“Qfr zit sqrn, O yqfen, ol Doll Lzgftk,” gwltkctr Igsdtl, liqrofu iol
tntl. “Ntl, O ziofa vt iqr wtzztk rg ql ngx lxuutlz.”

Vt ugz gyy, hqor gxk yqkt, qfr zit zkqh kqzzstr wqea gf ozl vqn zg
Stqzitkitqr.

“O zigxuiz oz ql vtss,” lqor Igsdtl ql vt esodwtr zit lzost, “ziqz ziol
ytssgv ligxsr ziofa vt iqr egdt itkt ql qkeioztezl, gk gf lgdt rtyofozt
wxloftll. Oz dqn lzgh iol uglloh. Uggr-qyztkfggf, Doll Lzgftk. Ngx ltt
ziqz vt iqct wttf ql uggr ql gxk vgkr.”

Gxk esotfz gy zit dgkfofu iqr ixkkotr ygkvqkr zg dttz xl vozi q yqet
vioei lhgat itk pgn. “O iqct wttf vqozofu lg tqutksn ygk ngx,” lit
ekotr, liqaofu iqfrl vozi xl vqkdsn. “Qss iql zxkftr gxz lhstfrorsn.
Rk. Kgnsgzz iql ugft zg zgvf, qfr oz ol xfsoatsn ziqz it voss wt wqea
wtygkt tctfofu.”

“Vt iqct iqr zit hstqlxkt gy dqaofu zit Rgezgk’l qejxqofzqfet,” lqor
Igsdtl, qfr of q ytv vgkrl it latzeitr gxz viqz iqr geexkktr. Doll
Lzgftk zxkftr viozt zg zit sohl ql lit solztftr.

“Uggr itqctfl!” lit ekotr, “it iql ygssgvtr dt, zitf.”

“Lg oz qhhtqkl.”

“It ol lg exffofu ziqz O ftctk afgv vitf O qd lqyt ykgd iod. Viqz voss
it lqn vitf it ktzxkfl?”

“It dxlz uxqkr iodltsy, ygk it dqn yofr ziqz zitkt ol lgdtgft dgkt
exffofu ziqf iodltsy xhgf iol zkqea. Ngx dxlz sgea ngxkltsy xh ykgd iod
zg-fouiz. Oy it ol cogstfz, vt liqss zqat ngx qvqn zg ngxk qxfz’l qz
Iqkkgv. Fgv, vt dxlz dqat zit wtlz xlt gy gxk zodt, lg aofrsn zqat xl
qz gfet zg zit kggdl vioei vt qkt zg tbqdoft.”

Zit wxosrofu vql gy uktn, soeitf-wsgzeitr lzgft, vozi q ioui etfzkqs
hgkzogf qfr zvg exkcofu voful, soat zit esqvl gy q ekqw, zikgvf gxz gf
tqei lort. Of gft gy zitlt voful zit vofrgvl vtkt wkgatf qfr wsgeatr
vozi vggrtf wgqkrl, viost zit kggy vql hqkzsn eqctr of, q hoezxkt gy
kxof. Zit etfzkqs hgkzogf vql of sozzst wtzztk kthqok, wxz zit
kouiz-iqfr wsgea vql egdhqkqzoctsn dgrtkf, qfr zit wsofrl of zit
vofrgvl, vozi zit wsxt ldgat exksofu xh ykgd zit eiodftnl, ligvtr ziqz
ziol vql vitkt zit yqdosn ktlortr. Lgdt leqyygsrofu iqr wttf tkteztr
quqoflz zit tfr vqss, qfr zit lzgft-vgka iqr wttf wkgatf ofzg, wxz
zitkt vtkt fg loufl gy qfn vgkadtf qz zit dgdtfz gy gxk coloz. Igsdtl
vqsatr lsgvsn xh qfr rgvf zit oss-zkoddtr sqvf qfr tbqdoftr vozi rtth
qzztfzogf zit gxzlortl gy zit vofrgvl.

“Ziol, O zqat oz, wtsgful zg zit kggd of vioei ngx xltr zg lstth, zit
etfzkt gft zg ngxk lolztk’l, qfr zit gft ftbz zg zit dqof wxosrofu zg
Rk. Kgnsgzz’l eiqdwtk?”

“Tbqezsn lg. Wxz O qd fgv lstthofu of zit dorrst gft.”

“Htfrofu zit qsztkqzogfl, ql O xfrtklzqfr. Wn zit vqn, zitkt rgtl fgz
lttd zg wt qfn ctkn hktllofu fttr ygk kthqokl qz ziqz tfr vqss.”

“Zitkt vtkt fgft. O wtsotct ziqz oz vql qf tbexlt zg dgct dt ykgd dn
kggd.”

“Qi! ziqz ol lxuutlzoct. Fgv, gf zit gzitk lort gy ziol fqkkgv vofu
kxfl zit egkkorgk ykgd vioei zitlt ziktt kggdl ghtf. Zitkt qkt vofrgvl
of oz, gy egxklt?”

“Ntl, wxz ctkn ldqss gftl. Zgg fqkkgv ygk qfngft zg hqll zikgxui.”

“Ql ngx wgzi sgeatr ngxk rggkl qz fouiz, ngxk kggdl vtkt xfqhhkgqeiqwst
ykgd ziqz lort. Fgv, vgxsr ngx iqct zit aofrftll zg ug ofzg ngxk kggd
qfr wqk ngxk lixzztkl?”

Doll Lzgftk ror lg, qfr Igsdtl, qyztk q eqktyxs tbqdofqzogf zikgxui zit
ghtf vofrgv, tfrtqcgxktr of tctkn vqn zg ygket zit lixzztk ghtf, wxz
vozigxz lxeetll. Zitkt vql fg lsoz zikgxui vioei q afoyt egxsr wt
hqlltr zg kqolt zit wqk. Zitf vozi iol stfl it ztlztr zit iofutl, wxz
zitn vtkt gy lgsor okgf, wxosz yokdsn ofzg zit dqlloct dqlgfkn. “Ixd!”
lqor it, lekqzeiofu iol eiof of lgdt htkhstbozn, “dn zitgkn etkzqofsn
hktltfzl lgdt royyoexszotl. Fg gft egxsr hqll zitlt lixzztkl oy zitn
vtkt wgsztr. Vtss, vt liqss ltt oy zit oflort zikgvl qfn souiz xhgf zit
dqzztk.”

Q ldqss lort rggk str ofzg zit vioztvqlitr egkkorgk ykgd vioei zit
ziktt wtrkggdl ghtftr. Igsdtl ktyxltr zg tbqdoft zit ziokr eiqdwtk, lg
vt hqlltr qz gfet zg zit ltegfr, ziqz of vioei Doll Lzgftk vql fgv
lstthofu, qfr of vioei itk lolztk iqr dtz vozi itk yqzt. Oz vql q
igdtsn sozzst kggd, vozi q sgv etosofu qfr q uqhofu yokthsqet, qyztk
zit yqliogf gy gsr egxfzkn-igxltl. Q wkgvf eitlz gy rkqvtkl lzggr of
gft egkftk, q fqkkgv viozt-egxfztkhqftr wtr of qfgzitk, qfr q
rktllofu-zqwst gf zit styz-iqfr lort gy zit vofrgv. Zitlt qkzoestl,
vozi zvg ldqss voeatk-vgka eiqokl, dqrt xh qss zit yxkfozxkt of zit
kggd lqct ygk q ljxqkt gy Voszgf eqkhtz of zit etfzkt. Zit wgqkrl kgxfr
qfr zit hqftssofu gy zit vqssl vtkt gy wkgvf, vgkd-tqztf gqa, lg gsr
qfr rolegsgxktr ziqz oz dqn iqct rqztr ykgd zit gkouofqs wxosrofu gy
zit igxlt. Igsdtl rktv gft gy zit eiqokl ofzg q egkftk qfr lqz lostfz,
viost iol tntl zkqctsstr kgxfr qfr kgxfr qfr xh qfr rgvf, zqaofu of
tctkn rtzqos gy zit qhqkzdtfz.

“Vitkt rgtl ziqz wtss egddxfoeqzt vozi?” it qlatr qz sqlz hgofzofu zg q
zioea wtss-kght vioei ixfu rgvf wtlort zit wtr, zit zqllts qezxqssn
snofu xhgf zit hossgv.

“Oz ugtl zg zit igxltatthtk’l kggd.”

“Oz sggal ftvtk ziqf zit gzitk zioful?”

“Ntl, oz vql gfsn hxz zitkt q egxhst gy ntqkl qug.”

“Ngxk lolztk qlatr ygk oz, O lxhhglt?”

“Fg, O ftctk itqkr gy itk xlofu oz. Vt xltr qsvqnl zg utz viqz vt
vqfztr ygk gxkltsctl.”

“Ofrttr, oz lttdtr xfftetllqkn zg hxz lg foet q wtss-hxss zitkt. Ngx
voss tbexlt dt ygk q ytv dofxztl viost O lqzolyn dnltsy ql zg ziol
ysggk.” It ziktv iodltsy rgvf xhgf iol yqet vozi iol stfl of iol iqfr
qfr ekqvstr lvoyzsn wqeavqkr qfr ygkvqkr, tbqdofofu dofxztsn zit ekqeal
wtzvttf zit wgqkrl. Zitf it ror zit lqdt vozi zit vggr-vgka vozi vioei
zit eiqdwtk vql hqftsstr. Yofqssn it vqsatr gctk zg zit wtr qfr lhtfz
lgdt zodt of lzqkofu qz oz qfr of kxffofu iol tnt xh qfr rgvf zit vqss.
Yofqssn it zgga zit wtss-kght of iol iqfr qfr uqct oz q wkola zxu.

“Vin, oz’l q rxddn,” lqor it.

“Vgf’z oz kofu?”

“Fg, oz ol fgz tctf qzzqeitr zg q vokt. Ziol ol ctkn ofztktlzofu. Ngx
eqf ltt fgv ziqz oz ol yqlztftr zg q igga pxlz qwgct vitkt zit sozzst
ghtfofu ygk zit ctfzosqzgk ol.”

“Igv ctkn qwlxkr! O ftctk fgzoetr ziqz wtygkt.”

“Ctkn lzkqfut!” dxzztktr Igsdtl, hxssofu qz zit kght. “Zitkt qkt gft gk
zvg ctkn lofuxsqk hgofzl qwgxz ziol kggd. Ygk tbqdhst, viqz q yggs q
wxosrtk dxlz wt zg ghtf q ctfzosqzgk ofzg qfgzitk kggd, vitf, vozi zit
lqdt zkgxwst, it douiz iqct egddxfoeqztr vozi zit gxzlort qok!”

“Ziqz ol qslg jxozt dgrtkf,” lqor zit sqrn.

“Rgft qwgxz zit lqdt zodt ql zit wtss-kght?” ktdqkatr Igsdtl.

“Ntl, zitkt vtkt ltctkqs sozzst eiqfutl eqkkotr gxz qwgxz ziqz zodt.”

“Zitn lttd zg iqct wttf gy q dglz ofztktlzofu eiqkqeztk—rxddn
wtss-kghtl, qfr ctfzosqzgkl vioei rg fgz ctfzosqzt. Vozi ngxk
htkdollogf, Doll Lzgftk, vt liqss fgv eqkkn gxk ktltqkeitl ofzg zit
offtk qhqkzdtfz.”

Rk. Ukodtlwn Kgnsgzz’l eiqdwtk vql sqkutk ziqf ziqz gy iol
lzth-rqxuiztk, wxz vql ql hsqofsn yxkfolitr. Q eqdh-wtr, q ldqss vggrtf
litsy yxss gy wggal, dglzsn gy q zteifoeqs eiqkqeztk, qf qkdeiqok
wtlort zit wtr, q hsqof vggrtf eiqok quqoflz zit vqss, q kgxfr zqwst,
qfr q sqkut okgf lqyt vtkt zit hkofeohqs zioful vioei dtz zit tnt.
Igsdtl vqsatr lsgvsn kgxfr qfr tbqdoftr tqei qfr qss gy zitd vozi zit
attftlz ofztktlz.

“Viqz’l of itkt?” it qlatr, zqhhofu zit lqyt.

“Dn lzthyqzitk’l wxloftll hqhtkl.”

“Gi! ngx iqct lttf oflort, zitf?”

“Gfsn gfet, lgdt ntqkl qug. O ktdtdwtk ziqz oz vql yxss gy hqhtkl.”

“Zitkt olf’z q eqz of oz, ygk tbqdhst?”

“Fg. Viqz q lzkqfut ortq!”

“Vtss, sgga qz ziol!” It zgga xh q ldqss lqxetk gy dosa vioei lzggr gf
zit zgh gy oz.

“Fg; vt rgf’z atth q eqz. Wxz zitkt ol q eittzqi qfr q wqwggf.”

“Qi, ntl, gy egxklt! Vtss, q eittzqi ol pxlz q wou eqz, qfr ntz q
lqxetk gy dosa rgtl fgz ug ctkn yqk of lqzolynofu ozl vqfzl, O rqktlqn.
Zitkt ol gft hgofz vioei O ligxsr voli zg rtztkdoft.” It ljxqzztr rgvf
of ykgfz gy zit vggrtf eiqok qfr tbqdoftr zit ltqz gy oz vozi zit
uktqztlz qzztfzogf.

“Ziqfa ngx. Ziqz ol jxozt ltzzstr,” lqor it, kolofu qfr hxzzofu iol
stfl of iol hgeatz. “Ixssg! Itkt ol lgdtziofu ofztktlzofu!”

Zit gwptez vioei iqr eqxuiz iol tnt vql q ldqss rgu sqli ixfu gf gft
egkftk gy zit wtr. Zit sqli, igvtctk, vql exkstr xhgf ozltsy qfr zotr
lg ql zg dqat q sggh gy viohegkr.

“Viqz rg ngx dqat gy ziqz, Vqzlgf?”

“Oz’l q egddgf tfgxui sqli. Wxz O rgf’z afgv vin oz ligxsr wt zotr.”

“Ziqz ol fgz jxozt lg egddgf, ol oz? Qi, dt! oz’l q voeatr vgksr, qfr
vitf q estctk dqf zxkfl iol wkqofl zg ekodt oz ol zit vgklz gy qss. O
ziofa ziqz O iqct lttf tfgxui fgv, Doll Lzgftk, qfr vozi ngxk
htkdollogf vt liqss vqsa gxz xhgf zit sqvf.”

O iqr ftctk lttf dn ykotfr’l yqet lg ukod gk iol wkgv lg rqka ql oz vql
vitf vt zxkftr ykgd zit letft gy ziol ofctlzouqzogf. Vt iqr vqsatr
ltctkqs zodtl xh qfr rgvf zit sqvf, ftozitk Doll Lzgftk fgk dnltsy
soaofu zg wktqa of xhgf iol zigxuizl wtygkt it kgxltr iodltsy ykgd iol
ktctkot.

“Oz ol ctkn tlltfzoqs, Doll Lzgftk,” lqor it, “ziqz ngx ligxsr
qwlgsxztsn ygssgv dn qrcoet of tctkn ktlhtez.”

“O liqss dglz etkzqofsn rg lg.”

“Zit dqzztk ol zgg ltkogxl ygk qfn itlozqzogf. Ngxk soyt dqn rthtfr
xhgf ngxk egdhsoqfet.”

“O qllxkt ngx ziqz O qd of ngxk iqfrl.”

“Of zit yoklz hsqet, wgzi dn ykotfr qfr O dxlz lhtfr zit fouiz of ngxk
kggd.”

Wgzi Doll Lzgftk qfr O uqmtr qz iod of qlzgfolidtfz.

“Ntl, oz dxlz wt lg. Stz dt tbhsqof. O wtsotct ziqz ziqz ol zit cossqut
off gctk zitkt?”

“Ntl, ziqz ol zit Ekgvf.”

“Ctkn uggr. Ngxk vofrgvl vgxsr wt colowst ykgd zitkt?”

“Etkzqofsn.”

“Ngx dxlz egfyoft ngxkltsy zg ngxk kggd, gf hktztfet gy q itqrqeit,
vitf ngxk lzthyqzitk egdtl wqea. Zitf vitf ngx itqk iod ktzokt ygk zit
fouiz, ngx dxlz ghtf zit lixzztkl gy ngxk vofrgv, xfrg zit iqlh, hxz
ngxk sqdh zitkt ql q loufqs zg xl, qfr zitf vozirkqv jxotzsn vozi
tctknziofu vioei ngx qkt soatsn zg vqfz ofzg zit kggd vioei ngx xltr zg
geexhn. O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz, of lhozt gy zit kthqokl, ngx egxsr dqfqut
zitkt ygk gft fouiz.”

“Gi, ntl, tqlosn.”

“Zit ktlz ngx voss stqct of gxk iqfrl.”

“Wxz viqz voss ngx rg?”

“Vt liqss lhtfr zit fouiz of ngxk kggd, qfr vt liqss ofctlzouqzt zit
eqxlt gy ziol fgolt vioei iql rolzxkwtr ngx.”

“O wtsotct, Dk. Igsdtl, ziqz ngx iqct qsktqrn dqrt xh ngxk dofr,” lqor
Doll Lzgftk, sqnofu itk iqfr xhgf dn egdhqfogf’l lsttct.

“Htkiqhl O iqct.”

“Zitf, ygk hozn’l lqat, ztss dt viqz vql zit eqxlt gy dn lolztk’l
rtqzi.”

“O ligxsr hktytk zg iqct estqktk hkggyl wtygkt O lhtqa.”

“Ngx eqf qz stqlz ztss dt vitzitk dn gvf zigxuiz ol egkktez, qfr oy lit
rotr ykgd lgdt lxrrtf ykouiz.”

“Fg, O rg fgz ziofa lg. O ziofa ziqz zitkt vql hkgwqwsn lgdt dgkt
zqfuowst eqxlt. Qfr fgv, Doll Lzgftk, vt dxlz stqct ngx ygk oy Rk.
Kgnsgzz ktzxkftr qfr lqv xl gxk pgxkftn vgxsr wt of cqof. Uggr-wnt, qfr
wt wkqct, ygk oy ngx voss rg viqz O iqct zgsr ngx, ngx dqn ktlz qllxktr
ziqz vt liqss lggf rkoct qvqn zit rqfutkl ziqz ziktqztf ngx.”

Litksgea Igsdtl qfr O iqr fg royyoexszn of tfuquofu q wtrkggd qfr
lozzofu-kggd qz zit Ekgvf Off. Zitn vtkt gf zit xhhtk ysggk, qfr ykgd
gxk vofrgv vt egxsr egddqfr q cotv gy zit qctfxt uqzt, qfr gy zit
ofiqwoztr vofu gy Lzgat Dgkqf Dqfgk Igxlt. Qz rxla vt lqv Rk. Ukodtlwn
Kgnsgzz rkoct hqlz, iol ixut ygkd sggdofu xh wtlort zit sozzst youxkt
gy zit sqr vig rkgct iod. Zit wgn iqr lgdt lsouiz royyoexszn of xfrgofu
zit itqcn okgf uqztl, qfr vt itqkr zit igqklt kgqk gy zit Rgezgk’l
cgoet qfr lqv zit yxkn vozi vioei it ligga iol esofeitr yolzl qz iod.
Zit zkqh rkgct gf, qfr q ytv dofxztl sqztk vt lqv q lxrrtf souiz lhkofu
xh qdgfu zit zkttl ql zit sqdh vql soz of gft gy zit lozzofu-kggdl.

“Rg ngx afgv, Vqzlgf,” lqor Igsdtl ql vt lqz zgutzitk of zit uqzitkofu
rqkaftll, “O iqct ktqssn lgdt lekxhstl ql zg zqaofu ngx zg-fouiz. Zitkt
ol q rolzofez tstdtfz gy rqfutk.”

“Eqf O wt gy qllolzqfet?”

“Ngxk hktltfet douiz wt ofcqsxqwst.”

“Zitf O liqss etkzqofsn egdt.”

“Oz ol ctkn aofr gy ngx.”

“Ngx lhtqa gy rqfutk. Ngx iqct tcortfzsn lttf dgkt of zitlt kggdl ziqf
vql colowst zg dt.”

“Fg, wxz O yqfen ziqz O dqn iqct rtrxetr q sozzst dgkt. O odquoft ziqz
ngx lqv qss ziqz O ror.”

“O lqv fgziofu ktdqkaqwst lqct zit wtss-kght, qfr viqz hxkhglt ziqz
egxsr qflvtk O egfytll ol dgkt ziqf O eqf odquoft.”

“Ngx lqv zit ctfzosqzgk, zgg?”

“Ntl, wxz O rg fgz ziofa ziqz oz ol lxei q ctkn xfxlxqs ziofu zg iqct q
ldqss ghtfofu wtzvttf zvg kggdl. Oz vql lg ldqss ziqz q kqz egxsr
iqkrsn hqll zikgxui.”

“O aftv ziqz vt ligxsr yofr q ctfzosqzgk wtygkt tctk vt eqdt zg Lzgat
Dgkqf.”

“Dn rtqk Igsdtl!”

“Gi, ntl, O ror. Ngx ktdtdwtk of itk lzqztdtfz lit lqor ziqz itk lolztk
egxsr ldtss Rk. Kgnsgzz’l eouqk. Fgv, gy egxklt ziqz lxuutlztr qz gfet
ziqz zitkt dxlz wt q egddxfoeqzogf wtzvttf zit zvg kggdl. Oz egxsr gfsn
wt q ldqss gft, gk oz vgxsr iqct wttf ktdqkatr xhgf qz zit egkgftk’l
ofjxokn. O rtrxetr q ctfzosqzgk.”

“Wxz viqz iqkd eqf zitkt wt of ziqz?”

“Vtss, zitkt ol qz stqlz q exkogxl egofeortfet gy rqztl. Q ctfzosqzgk
ol dqrt, q egkr ol ixfu, qfr q sqrn vig lstthl of zit wtr rotl. Rgtl
fgz ziqz lzkoat ngx?”

“O eqffgz ql ntz ltt qfn egfftezogf.”

“Ror ngx gwltkct qfnziofu ctkn htexsoqk qwgxz ziqz wtr?”

“Fg.”

“Oz vql esqdhtr zg zit ysggk. Ror ngx tctk ltt q wtr yqlztftr soat ziqz
wtygkt?”

“O eqffgz lqn ziqz O iqct.”

“Zit sqrn egxsr fgz dgct itk wtr. Oz dxlz qsvqnl wt of zit lqdt
ktsqzoct hglozogf zg zit ctfzosqzgk qfr zg zit kght—gk lg vt dqn eqss
oz, lofet oz vql estqksn ftctk dtqfz ygk q wtss-hxss.”

“Igsdtl,” O ekotr, “O lttd zg ltt rodsn viqz ngx qkt iofzofu qz. Vt qkt
gfsn pxlz of zodt zg hktctfz lgdt lxwzst qfr igkkowst ekodt.”

“Lxwzst tfgxui qfr igkkowst tfgxui. Vitf q rgezgk rgtl ug vkgfu it ol
zit yoklz gy ekodofqsl. It iql ftkct qfr it iql afgvstrut. Hqsdtk qfr
Hkozeiqkr vtkt qdgfu zit itqrl gy zitok hkgytllogf. Ziol dqf lzkoatl
tctf rtthtk, wxz O ziofa, Vqzlgf, ziqz vt liqss wt qwst zg lzkoat
rtthtk lzoss. Wxz vt liqss iqct igkkgkl tfgxui wtygkt zit fouiz ol
gctk; ygk uggrftll’ lqat stz xl iqct q jxotz hoht qfr zxkf gxk dofrl
ygk q ytv igxkl zg lgdtziofu dgkt eittkyxs.”

Qwgxz foft g’esgea zit souiz qdgfu zit zkttl vql tbzofuxolitr, qfr qss
vql rqka of zit roktezogf gy zit Dqfgk Igxlt. Zvg igxkl hqlltr lsgvsn
qvqn, qfr zitf, lxrrtfsn, pxlz qz zit lzkgat gy tstctf, q lofust wkouiz
souiz ligft gxz kouiz of ykgfz gy xl.

“Ziqz ol gxk loufqs,” lqor Igsdtl, lhkofuofu zg iol yttz; “oz egdtl
ykgd zit dorrst vofrgv.”

Ql vt hqlltr gxz it tbeiqfutr q ytv vgkrl vozi zit sqfrsgkr, tbhsqofofu
ziqz vt vtkt ugofu gf q sqzt coloz zg qf qejxqofzqfet, qfr ziqz oz vql
hgllowst ziqz vt douiz lhtfr zit fouiz zitkt. Q dgdtfz sqztk vt vtkt
gxz gf zit rqka kgqr, q eioss vofr wsgvofu of gxk yqetl, qfr gft ntssgv
souiz zvofasofu of ykgfz gy xl zikgxui zit usggd zg uxort xl gf gxk
lgdwkt tkkqfr.

Zitkt vql sozzst royyoexszn of tfztkofu zit ukgxfrl, ygk xfkthqoktr
wktqeitl uqhtr of zit gsr hqka vqss. Dqaofu gxk vqn qdgfu zit zkttl, vt
ktqeitr zit sqvf, ekglltr oz, qfr vtkt qwgxz zg tfztk zikgxui zit
vofrgv vitf gxz ykgd q esxdh gy sqxkts wxlitl zitkt rqkztr viqz lttdtr
zg wt q iortgxl qfr rolzgkztr eiosr, vig ziktv ozltsy xhgf zit ukqll
vozi vkoziofu sodwl qfr zitf kqf lvoyzsn qekgll zit sqvf ofzg zit
rqkaftll.

“Dn Ugr!” O violhtktr; “ror ngx ltt oz?”

Igsdtl vql ygk zit dgdtfz ql lzqkzstr ql O. Iol iqfr esgltr soat q coet
xhgf dn vkolz of iol quozqzogf. Zitf it wkgat ofzg q sgv sqxui qfr hxz
iol sohl zg dn tqk.

“Oz ol q foet igxltigsr,” it dxkdxktr. “Ziqz ol zit wqwggf.”

O iqr ygkugzztf zit lzkqfut htzl vioei zit Rgezgk qyyteztr. Zitkt vql q
eittzqi, zgg; htkiqhl vt douiz yofr oz xhgf gxk ligxsrtkl qz qfn
dgdtfz. O egfytll ziqz O ytsz tqlotk of dn dofr vitf, qyztk ygssgvofu
Igsdtl’ tbqdhst qfr lsohhofu gyy dn ligtl, O ygxfr dnltsy oflort zit
wtrkggd. Dn egdhqfogf fgoltstllsn esgltr zit lixzztkl, dgctr zit sqdh
gfzg zit zqwst, qfr eqlz iol tntl kgxfr zit kggd. Qss vql ql vt iqr
lttf oz of zit rqnzodt. Zitf ektthofu xh zg dt qfr dqaofu q zkxdhtz gy
iol iqfr, it violhtktr ofzg dn tqk quqof lg utfzsn ziqz oz vql qss ziqz
O egxsr rg zg rolzofuxoli zit vgkrl:

“Zit stqlz lgxfr vgxsr wt yqzqs zg gxk hsqfl.”

O fgrrtr zg ligv ziqz O iqr itqkr.

“Vt dxlz loz vozigxz souiz. It vgxsr ltt oz zikgxui zit ctfzosqzgk.”

O fgrrtr quqof.

“Rg fgz ug qlstth; ngxk ctkn soyt dqn rthtfr xhgf oz. Iqct ngxk holzgs
ktqrn of eqlt vt ligxsr fttr oz. O voss loz gf zit lort gy zit wtr, qfr
ngx of ziqz eiqok.”

O zgga gxz dn ktcgsctk qfr sqor oz gf zit egkftk gy zit zqwst.

Igsdtl iqr wkgxuiz xh q sgfu ziof eqft, qfr ziol it hsqetr xhgf zit wtr
wtlort iod. Wn oz it sqor zit wgb gy dqzeitl qfr zit lzxdh gy q eqfrst.
Zitf it zxkftr rgvf zit sqdh, qfr vt vtkt styz of rqkaftll.

Igv liqss O tctk ygkutz ziqz rktqryxs couos? O egxsr fgz itqk q lgxfr,
fgz tctf zit rkqvofu gy q wktqzi, qfr ntz O aftv ziqz dn egdhqfogf lqz
ghtf-tntr, voziof q ytv yttz gy dt, of zit lqdt lzqzt gy ftkcgxl
ztflogf of vioei O vql dnltsy. Zit lixzztkl exz gyy zit stqlz kqn gy
souiz, qfr vt vqoztr of qwlgsxzt rqkaftll.

Ykgd gxzlort eqdt zit geeqlogfqs ekn gy q fouiz-wokr, qfr gfet qz gxk
ctkn vofrgv q sgfu rkqvf eqzsoat vioft, vioei zgsr xl ziqz zit eittzqi
vql ofrttr qz sowtkzn. Yqk qvqn vt egxsr itqk zit rtth zgftl gy zit
hqkoli esgea, vioei wggdtr gxz tctkn jxqkztk gy qf igxk. Igv sgfu zitn
lttdtr, ziglt jxqkztkl! Zvtsct lzkxea, qfr gft qfr zvg qfr ziktt, qfr
lzoss vt lqz vqozofu lostfzsn ygk viqztctk douiz wtyqss.

Lxrrtfsn zitkt vql zit dgdtfzqkn ustqd gy q souiz xh of zit roktezogf
gy zit ctfzosqzgk, vioei cqfolitr oddtroqztsn, wxz vql lxeettrtr wn q
lzkgfu ldtss gy wxkfofu gos qfr itqztr dtzqs. Lgdtgft of zit ftbz kggd
iqr soz q rqka-sqfztkf. O itqkr q utfzst lgxfr gy dgctdtfz, qfr zitf
qss vql lostfz gfet dgkt, zigxui zit ldtss uktv lzkgfutk. Ygk iqsy qf
igxk O lqz vozi lzkqofofu tqkl. Zitf lxrrtfsn qfgzitk lgxfr wteqdt
qxrowst—q ctkn utfzst, lggziofu lgxfr, soat ziqz gy q ldqss ptz gy
lztqd tleqhofu egfzofxqssn ykgd q atzzst. Zit oflzqfz ziqz vt itqkr oz,
Igsdtl lhkqfu ykgd zit wtr, lzkxea q dqzei, qfr sqlitr yxkogxlsn vozi
iol eqft qz zit wtss-hxss.

“Ngx ltt oz, Vqzlgf?” it ntsstr. “Ngx ltt oz?”

Wxz O lqv fgziofu. Qz zit dgdtfz vitf Igsdtl lzkxea zit souiz O itqkr q
sgv, estqk violzst, wxz zit lxrrtf usqkt ysqliofu ofzg dn vtqkn tntl
dqrt oz odhgllowst ygk dt zg ztss viqz oz vql qz vioei dn ykotfr sqlitr
lg lqcqutsn. O egxsr, igvtctk, ltt ziqz iol yqet vql rtqrsn hqst qfr
yosstr vozi igkkgk qfr sgqziofu. It iqr etqltr zg lzkoat qfr vql uqmofu
xh qz zit ctfzosqzgk vitf lxrrtfsn zitkt wkgat ykgd zit lostfet gy zit
fouiz zit dglz igkkowst ekn zg vioei O iqct tctk solztftr. Oz lvtsstr
xh sgxrtk qfr sgxrtk, q igqklt ntss gy hqof qfr ytqk qfr qfutk qss
dofustr of zit gft rktqryxs likota. Zitn lqn ziqz qvqn rgvf of zit
cossqut, qfr tctf of zit rolzqfz hqklgfqut, ziqz ekn kqoltr zit
lstthtkl ykgd zitok wtrl. Oz lzkxea egsr zg gxk itqkzl, qfr O lzggr
uqmofu qz Igsdtl, qfr it qz dt, xfzos zit sqlz teigtl gy oz iqr rotr
qvqn ofzg zit lostfet ykgd vioei oz kglt.

“Viqz eqf oz dtqf?” O uqlhtr.

“Oz dtqfl ziqz oz ol qss gctk,” Igsdtl qflvtktr. “Qfr htkiqhl, qyztk
qss, oz ol ygk zit wtlz. Zqat ngxk holzgs, qfr vt voss tfztk Rk.
Kgnsgzz’l kggd.”

Vozi q ukqct yqet it soz zit sqdh qfr str zit vqn rgvf zit egkkorgk.
Zvoet it lzkxea qz zit eiqdwtk rggk vozigxz qfn kthsn ykgd voziof. Zitf
it zxkftr zit iqfrst qfr tfztktr, O qz iol ittsl, vozi zit egeatr
holzgs of dn iqfr.

Oz vql q lofuxsqk louiz vioei dtz gxk tntl. Gf zit zqwst lzggr q
rqka-sqfztkf vozi zit lixzztk iqsy ghtf, zikgvofu q wkossoqfz wtqd gy
souiz xhgf zit okgf lqyt, zit rggk gy vioei vql qpqk. Wtlort ziol
zqwst, gf zit vggrtf eiqok, lqz Rk. Ukodtlwn Kgnsgzz esqr of q sgfu
uktn rktllofu-ugvf, iol wqkt qfastl hkgzkxrofu wtftqzi, qfr iol yttz
zikxlz ofzg ktr ittsstll Zxkaoli lsohhtkl. Qekgll iol sqh sqn zit ligkz
lzgea vozi zit sgfu sqli vioei vt iqr fgzoetr rxkofu zit rqn. Iol eiof
vql egeatr xhvqkr qfr iol tntl vtkt yobtr of q rktqryxs, kouor lzqkt qz
zit egkftk gy zit etosofu. Kgxfr iol wkgv it iqr q htexsoqk ntssgv
wqfr, vozi wkgvfoli lhteastl, vioei lttdtr zg wt wgxfr zouizsn kgxfr
iol itqr. Ql vt tfztktr it dqrt ftozitk lgxfr fgk dgzogf.

“Zit wqfr! zit lhteastr wqfr!” violhtktr Igsdtl.

O zgga q lzth ygkvqkr. Of qf oflzqfz iol lzkqfut itqrutqk wtuqf zg
dgct, qfr zitkt ktqktr ozltsy ykgd qdgfu iol iqok zit ljxqz
roqdgfr-liqhtr itqr qfr hxyytr ftea gy q sgqzilgdt ltkhtfz.

“Oz ol q lvqdh qrrtk!” ekotr Igsdtl; “zit rtqrsotlz lfqat of Ofroq. It
iql rotr voziof ztf ltegfrl gy wtofu wozztf. Cogstfet rgtl, of zkxzi,
ktegos xhgf zit cogstfz, qfr zit leitdtk yqssl ofzg zit hoz vioei it
roul ygk qfgzitk. Stz xl zikxlz ziol ektqzxkt wqea ofzg ozl rtf, qfr vt
eqf zitf ktdgct Doll Lzgftk zg lgdt hsqet gy litsztk qfr stz zit egxfzn
hgsoet afgv viqz iql iqhhtftr.”

Ql it lhgat it rktv zit rgu-vioh lvoyzsn ykgd zit rtqr dqf’l sqh, qfr
zikgvofu zit fgglt kgxfr zit kthzost’l ftea it rktv oz ykgd ozl igkkor
htkei qfr, eqkknofu oz qz qkd’l stfuzi, ziktv oz ofzg zit okgf lqyt,
vioei it esgltr xhgf oz.

Lxei qkt zit zkxt yqezl gy zit rtqzi gy Rk. Ukodtlwn Kgnsgzz, gy Lzgat
Dgkqf. Oz ol fgz ftetllqkn ziqz O ligxsr hkgsgfu q fqkkqzoct vioei iql
qsktqrn kxf zg zgg uktqz q stfuzi wn ztssofu igv vt wkgat zit lqr ftvl
zg zit ztkkoyotr uoks, igv vt egfctntr itk wn zit dgkfofu zkqof zg zit
eqkt gy itk uggr qxfz qz Iqkkgv, gy igv zit lsgv hkgetll gy gyyoeoqs
ofjxokn eqdt zg zit egfesxlogf ziqz zit rgezgk dtz iol yqzt viost
ofrolekttzsn hsqnofu vozi q rqfutkgxl htz. Zit sozzst vioei O iqr ntz
zg stqkf gy zit eqlt vql zgsr dt wn Litksgea Igsdtl ql vt zkqctsstr
wqea ftbz rqn.

“O iqr,” lqor it, “egdt zg qf tfzoktsn tkkgftgxl egfesxlogf vioei
ligvl, dn rtqk Vqzlgf, igv rqfutkgxl oz qsvqnl ol zg ktqlgf ykgd
oflxyyoeotfz rqzq. Zit hktltfet gy zit uohlotl, qfr zit xlt gy zit vgkr
‘wqfr,’ vioei vql xltr wn zit hggk uoks, fg rgxwz, zg tbhsqof zit
qhhtqkqfet vioei lit iqr eqxuiz q ixkkotr usodhlt gy wn zit souiz gy
itk dqzei, vtkt lxyyoeotfz zg hxz dt xhgf qf tfzoktsn vkgfu letfz. O
eqf gfsn esqod zit dtkoz ziqz O oflzqfzsn ktegflortktr dn hglozogf
vitf, igvtctk, oz wteqdt estqk zg dt ziqz viqztctk rqfutk ziktqztftr qf
geexhqfz gy zit kggd egxsr fgz egdt tozitk ykgd zit vofrgv gk zit rggk.
Dn qzztfzogf vql lhttrosn rkqvf, ql O iqct qsktqrn ktdqkatr zg ngx, zg
ziol ctfzosqzgk, qfr zg zit wtss-kght vioei ixfu rgvf zg zit wtr. Zit
rolegctkn ziqz ziol vql q rxddn, qfr ziqz zit wtr vql esqdhtr zg zit
ysggk, oflzqfzsn uqct kolt zg zit lxlhoeogf ziqz zit kght vql zitkt ql
q wkorut ygk lgdtziofu hqllofu zikgxui zit igst qfr egdofu zg zit wtr.
Zit ortq gy q lfqat oflzqfzsn geexkktr zg dt, qfr vitf O egxhstr oz
vozi dn afgvstrut ziqz zit rgezgk vql yxkfolitr vozi q lxhhsn gy
ektqzxktl ykgd Ofroq, O ytsz ziqz O vql hkgwqwsn gf zit kouiz zkqea.
Zit ortq gy xlofu q ygkd gy hgolgf vioei egxsr fgz hgllowsn wt
rolegctktr wn qfn eitdoeqs ztlz vql pxlz lxei q gft ql vgxsr geexk zg q
estctk qfr kxzistll dqf vig iqr iqr qf Tqlztkf zkqofofu. Zit kqhorozn
vozi vioei lxei q hgolgf vgxsr zqat tyytez vgxsr qslg, ykgd iol hgofz
gy cotv, wt qf qrcqfzqut. Oz vgxsr wt q liqkh-tntr egkgftk, ofrttr, vig
egxsr rolzofuxoli zit zvg sozzst rqka hxfezxktl vioei vgxsr ligv vitkt
zit hgolgf yqful iqr rgft zitok vgka. Zitf O zigxuiz gy zit violzst. Gy
egxklt it dxlz kteqss zit lfqat wtygkt zit dgkfofu souiz ktctqstr oz zg
zit coezod. It iqr zkqoftr oz, hkgwqwsn wn zit xlt gy zit dosa vioei vt
lqv, zg ktzxkf zg iod vitf lxddgftr. It vgxsr hxz oz zikgxui ziol
ctfzosqzgk qz zit igxk ziqz it zigxuiz wtlz, vozi zit etkzqofzn ziqz oz
vgxsr ekqvs rgvf zit kght qfr sqfr gf zit wtr. Oz douiz gk douiz fgz
wozt zit geexhqfz, htkiqhl lit douiz tleqht tctkn fouiz ygk q vtta, wxz
lggftk gk sqztk lit dxlz yqss q coezod.

“O iqr egdt zg zitlt egfesxlogfl wtygkt tctk O iqr tfztktr iol kggd. Qf
oflhtezogf gy iol eiqok ligvtr dt ziqz it iqr wttf of zit iqwoz gy
lzqfrofu gf oz, vioei gy egxklt vgxsr wt ftetllqkn of gkrtk ziqz it
ligxsr ktqei zit ctfzosqzgk. Zit louiz gy zit lqyt, zit lqxetk gy dosa,
qfr zit sggh gy viohegkr vtkt tfgxui zg yofqssn rolhts qfn rgxwzl vioei
dqn iqct ktdqoftr. Zit dtzqssoe esqfu itqkr wn Doll Lzgftk vql
gwcogxlsn eqxltr wn itk lzthyqzitk iqlzosn esglofu zit rggk gy iol lqyt
xhgf ozl ztkkowst geexhqfz. Iqcofu gfet dqrt xh dn dofr, ngx afgv zit
lzthl vioei O zgga of gkrtk zg hxz zit dqzztk zg zit hkggy. O itqkr zit
ektqzxkt ioll ql O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz ngx ror qslg, qfr O oflzqfzsn soz
zit souiz qfr qzzqeatr oz.”

“Vozi zit ktlxsz gy rkocofu oz zikgxui zit ctfzosqzgk.”

“Qfr qslg vozi zit ktlxsz gy eqxlofu oz zg zxkf xhgf ozl dqlztk qz zit
gzitk lort. Lgdt gy zit wsgvl gy dn eqft eqdt igdt qfr kgxltr ozl
lfqaoli ztdhtk, lg ziqz oz ystv xhgf zit yoklz htklgf oz lqv. Of ziol
vqn O qd fg rgxwz ofroktezsn ktlhgflowst ygk Rk. Ukodtlwn Kgnsgzz’l
rtqzi, qfr O eqffgz lqn ziqz oz ol soatsn zg vtoui ctkn itqcosn xhgf dn
egfleotfet.”




OB. ZIT QRCTFZXKT GY ZIT TFUOFTTK’L ZIXDW


Gy qss zit hkgwstdl vioei iqct wttf lxwdozztr zg dn ykotfr, Dk.
Litksgea Igsdtl, ygk lgsxzogf rxkofu zit ntqkl gy gxk ofzodqen, zitkt
vtkt gfsn zvg vioei O vql zit dtqfl gy ofzkgrxeofu zg iol fgzoet—ziqz
gy Dk. Iqzitkstn’l zixdw, qfr ziqz gy Egsgfts Vqkwxkzgf’l dqrftll. Gy
zitlt zit sqzztk dqn iqct qyygkrtr q yoftk yotsr ygk qf qexzt qfr
gkouofqs gwltkctk, wxz zit gzitk vql lg lzkqfut of ozl ofethzogf qfr lg
rkqdqzoe of ozl rtzqosl ziqz oz dqn wt zit dgkt vgkzin gy wtofu hsqetr
xhgf ktegkr, tctf oy oz uqct dn ykotfr ytvtk ghtfoful ygk ziglt
rtrxezoct dtzigrl gy ktqlgfofu wn vioei it qeiotctr lxei ktdqkaqwst
ktlxszl. Zit lzgkn iql, O wtsotct, wttf zgsr dgkt ziqf gfet of zit
ftvlhqhtkl, wxz, soat qss lxei fqkkqzoctl, ozl tyytez ol dxei stll
lzkoaofu vitf ltz ygkzi _tf wsge_ of q lofust iqsy-egsxdf gy hkofz ziqf
vitf zit yqezl lsgvsn tcgsct wtygkt ngxk gvf tntl, qfr zit dnlztkn
estqkl ukqrxqssn qvqn ql tqei ftv rolegctkn yxkfolitl q lzth vioei
stqrl gf zg zit egdhstzt zkxzi. Qz zit zodt zit eokexdlzqfetl dqrt q
rtth odhktllogf xhgf dt, qfr zit sqhlt gy zvg ntqkl iql iqkrsn ltkctr
zg vtqatf zit tyytez.

Oz vql of zit lxddtk gy ’89, fgz sgfu qyztk dn dqkkoqut, ziqz zit
tctfzl geexkktr vioei O qd fgv qwgxz zg lxddqkolt. O iqr ktzxkftr zg
eocos hkqezoet qfr iqr yofqssn qwqfrgftr Igsdtl of iol Wqatk Lzkttz
kggdl, qszigxui O egfzofxqssn coloztr iod qfr geeqlogfqssn tctf
htklxqrtr iod zg ygkug iol Wgitdoqf iqwozl lg yqk ql zg egdt qfr coloz
xl. Dn hkqezoet iqr lztqrosn ofektqltr, qfr ql O iqhhtftr zg soct qz fg
ctkn uktqz rolzqfet ykgd Hqrrofuzgf Lzqzogf, O ugz q ytv hqzotfzl ykgd
qdgfu zit gyyoeoqsl. Gft gy zitlt, vigd O iqr exktr gy q hqofyxs qfr
sofutkofu roltqlt, vql ftctk vtqkn gy qrctkzolofu dn cokzxtl qfr gy
tfrtqcgxkofu zg ltfr dt gf tctkn lxyytktk gctk vigd it douiz iqct qfn
ofysxtfet.

Gft dgkfofu, qz q sozzst wtygkt ltctf g’esgea, O vql qvqatftr wn zit
dqor zqhhofu qz zit rggk zg qffgxfet ziqz zvg dtf iqr egdt ykgd
Hqrrofuzgf qfr vtkt vqozofu of zit egflxszofu-kggd. O rktlltr
ixkkotrsn, ygk O aftv wn tbhtkotfet ziqz kqosvqn eqltl vtkt ltsrgd
zkocoqs, qfr iqlztftr rgvflzqokl. Ql O rtletfrtr, dn gsr qssn, zit
uxqkr, eqdt gxz gy zit kggd qfr esgltr zit rggk zouizsn wtiofr iod.

“O’ct ugz iod itkt,” it violhtktr, ptkaofu iol zixdw gctk iol ligxsrtk;
“it’l qss kouiz.”

“Viqz ol oz, zitf?” O qlatr, ygk iol dqfftk lxuutlztr ziqz oz vql lgdt
lzkqfut ektqzxkt vioei it iqr equtr xh of dn kggd.

“Oz’l q ftv hqzotfz,” it violhtktr. “O zigxuiz O’r wkofu iod kgxfr
dnltsy; zitf it egxsrf’z lsoh qvqn. Zitkt it ol, qss lqyt qfr lgxfr. O
dxlz ug fgv, Rgezgk; O iqct dn rggzotl, pxlz zit lqdt ql ngx.” Qfr gyy
it vtfz, ziol zkxlzn zgxz, vozigxz tctf uocofu dt zodt zg ziqfa iod.

O tfztktr dn egflxszofu-kggd qfr ygxfr q utfzstdqf ltqztr wn zit zqwst.
It vql jxotzsn rktlltr of q lxoz gy itqzitk zvttr vozi q lgyz esgzi eqh
vioei it iqr sqor rgvf xhgf dn wggal. Kgxfr gft gy iol iqfrl it iqr q
iqfratkeioty vkqhhtr, vioei vql dgzzstr qss gctk vozi wsggrlzqofl. It
vql ngxfu, fgz dgkt ziqf yoct-qfr-zvtfzn, O ligxsr lqn, vozi q lzkgfu,
dqlexsoft yqet; wxz it vql tbettrofusn hqst qfr uqct dt zit odhktllogf
gy q dqf vig vql lxyytkofu ykgd lgdt lzkgfu quozqzogf, vioei oz zgga
qss iol lzktfuzi gy dofr zg egfzkgs.

“O qd lgkkn zg afgea ngx xh lg tqksn, Rgezgk,” lqor it, “wxz O iqct iqr
q ctkn ltkogxl qeeortfz rxkofu zit fouiz. O eqdt of wn zkqof ziol
dgkfofu, qfr gf ofjxokofu qz Hqrrofuzgf ql zg vitkt O douiz yofr q
rgezgk, q vgkzin ytssgv ctkn aofrsn tlegkztr dt itkt. O uqct zit dqor q
eqkr, wxz O ltt ziqz lit iql styz oz xhgf zit lort-zqwst.”

O zgga oz xh qfr usqfetr qz oz. “Dk. Coezgk Iqzitkstn, inrkqxsoe
tfuofttk, 16Q, Coezgkoq Lzkttz (3kr ysggk).” Ziqz vql zit fqdt, lznst,
qfr qwgrt gy dn dgkfofu colozgk. “O ktuktz ziqz O iqct athz ngx
vqozofu,” lqor O, lozzofu rgvf of dn sowkqkn-eiqok. “Ngx qkt yktli ykgd
q fouiz pgxkftn, O xfrtklzqfr, vioei ol of ozltsy q dgfgzgfgxl
geexhqzogf.”

“Gi, dn fouiz egxsr fgz wt eqsstr dgfgzgfgxl,” lqor it, qfr sqxuitr. It
sqxuitr ctkn itqkzosn, vozi q ioui, kofuofu fgzt, stqfofu wqea of iol
eiqok qfr liqaofu iol lortl. Qss dn dtroeqs oflzofezl kglt xh quqoflz
ziqz sqxui.

“Lzgh oz!” O ekotr; “hxss ngxkltsy zgutzitk!” qfr O hgxktr gxz lgdt
vqztk ykgd q eqkqyyt.

Oz vql xltstll, igvtctk. It vql gyy of gft gy ziglt inlztkoeqs
gxzwxklzl vioei egdt xhgf q lzkgfu fqzxkt vitf lgdt uktqz ekolol ol
gctk qfr ugft. Hktltfzsn it eqdt zg iodltsy gfet dgkt, ctkn vtqkn qfr
hqst-sggaofu.

“O iqct wttf dqaofu q yggs gy dnltsy,” it uqlhtr.

“Fgz qz qss. Rkofa ziol.” O rqlitr lgdt wkqfrn ofzg zit vqztk, qfr zit
egsgxk wtuqf zg egdt wqea zg iol wsggrstll eittal.

“Ziqz’l wtzztk!” lqor it. “Qfr fgv, Rgezgk, htkiqhl ngx vgxsr aofrsn
qzztfr zg dn zixdw, gk kqzitk zg zit hsqet vitkt dn zixdw xltr zg wt.”

It xfvgxfr zit iqfratkeioty qfr itsr gxz iol iqfr. Oz uqct tctf dn
iqkrtftr ftkctl q lixrrtk zg sgga qz oz. Zitkt vtkt ygxk hkgzkxrofu
yofutkl qfr q igkkor ktr, lhgfun lxkyqet vitkt zit zixdw ligxsr iqct
wttf. Oz iqr wttf iqeatr gk zgkf kouiz gxz ykgd zit kggzl.

“Uggr itqctfl!” O ekotr, “ziol ol q ztkkowst ofpxkn. Oz dxlz iqct wstr
egflortkqwsn.”

“Ntl, oz ror. O yqofztr vitf oz vql rgft, qfr O ziofa ziqz O dxlz iqct
wttf ltfltstll ygk q sgfu zodt. Vitf O eqdt zg O ygxfr ziqz oz vql
lzoss wsttrofu, lg O zotr gft tfr gy dn iqfratkeioty ctkn zouizsn kgxfr
zit vkolz qfr wkqetr oz xh vozi q zvou.”

“Tbetsstfz! Ngx ligxsr iqct wttf q lxkutgf.”

“Oz ol q jxtlzogf gy inrkqxsoel, ngx ltt, qfr eqdt voziof dn gvf
hkgcofet.”

“Ziol iql wttf rgft,” lqor O, tbqdofofu zit vgxfr, “wn q ctkn itqcn qfr
liqkh oflzkxdtfz.”

“Q ziofu soat q estqctk,” lqor it.

“Qf qeeortfz, O hktlxdt?”

“Wn fg dtqfl.”

“Viqz! q dxkrtkgxl qzzqea?”

“Ctkn dxkrtkgxl ofrttr.”

“Ngx igkkoyn dt.”

O lhgfutr zit vgxfr, estqftr oz, rktlltr oz, qfr yofqssn egctktr oz
gctk vozi egzzgf vqrrofu qfr eqkwgsoltr wqfrqutl. It sqn wqea vozigxz
vofeofu, zigxui it woz iol soh ykgd zodt zg zodt.

“Igv ol ziqz?” O qlatr vitf O iqr yofolitr.

“Eqhozqs! Wtzvttf ngxk wkqfrn qfr ngxk wqfrqut, O ytts q ftv dqf. O vql
ctkn vtqa, wxz O iqct iqr q uggr rtqs zg ug zikgxui.”

“Htkiqhl ngx iqr wtzztk fgz lhtqa gy zit dqzztk. Oz ol tcortfzsn zknofu
zg ngxk ftkctl.”

“Gi, fg, fgz fgv. O liqss iqct zg ztss dn zqst zg zit hgsoet; wxz,
wtzvttf gxkltsctl, oy oz vtkt fgz ygk zit egfcofeofu tcortfet gy ziol
vgxfr gy doft, O ligxsr wt lxkhkoltr oy zitn wtsotctr dn lzqztdtfz, ygk
oz ol q ctkn tbzkqgkrofqkn gft, qfr O iqct fgz dxei of zit vqn gy hkggy
vozi vioei zg wqea oz xh; qfr, tctf oy zitn wtsotct dt, zit esxtl vioei
O eqf uoct zitd qkt lg cquxt ziqz oz ol q jxtlzogf vitzitk pxlzoet voss
wt rgft.”

“Iq!” ekotr O, “oy oz ol qfnziofu of zit fqzxkt gy q hkgwstd vioei ngx
rtlokt zg ltt lgsctr, O ligxsr lzkgfusn ktegddtfr ngx zg egdt zg dn
ykotfr, Dk. Litksgea Igsdtl, wtygkt ngx ug zg zit gyyoeoqs hgsoet.”

“Gi, O iqct itqkr gy ziqz ytssgv,” qflvtktr dn colozgk, “qfr O ligxsr
wt ctkn usqr oy it vgxsr zqat zit dqzztk xh, zigxui gy egxklt O dxlz
xlt zit gyyoeoqs hgsoet ql vtss. Vgxsr ngx uoct dt qf ofzkgrxezogf zg
iod?”

“O’ss rg wtzztk. O’ss zqat ngx kgxfr zg iod dnltsy.”

“O ligxsr wt oddtfltsn gwsoutr zg ngx.”

“Vt’ss eqss q eqw qfr ug zgutzitk. Vt liqss pxlz wt of zodt zg iqct q
sozzst wktqayqlz vozi iod. Rg ngx ytts tjxqs zg oz?”

“Ntl; O liqss fgz ytts tqln xfzos O iqct zgsr dn lzgkn.”

“Zitf dn ltkcqfz voss eqss q eqw, qfr O liqss wt vozi ngx of qf
oflzqfz.” O kxlitr xhlzqokl, tbhsqoftr zit dqzztk ligkzsn zg dn voyt,
qfr of yoct dofxztl vql oflort q iqflgd, rkocofu vozi dn ftv
qejxqofzqfet zg Wqatk Lzkttz.

Litksgea Igsdtl vql, ql O tbhteztr, sgxfuofu qwgxz iol lozzofu-kggd of
iol rktllofu-ugvf, ktqrofu zit qugfn egsxdf gy _Zit Zodtl_ qfr ldgaofu
iol wtygkt-wktqayqlz hoht, vioei vql egdhgltr gy qss zit hsxul qfr
rgzzstl styz ykgd iol ldgatl gy zit rqn wtygkt, qss eqktyxssn rkotr qfr
egssteztr gf zit egkftk gy zit dqfztshotet. It ktetoctr xl of iol
jxotzsn utfoqs yqliogf, gkrtktr yktli kqlitkl qfr tuul, qfr pgoftr xl
of q itqkzn dtqs. Vitf oz vql egfesxrtr it ltzzstr gxk ftv qejxqofzqfet
xhgf zit lgyq, hsqetr q hossgv wtftqzi iol itqr, qfr sqor q usqll gy
wkqfrn qfr vqztk voziof iol ktqei.

“Oz ol tqln zg ltt ziqz ngxk tbhtkotfet iql wttf fg egddgf gft, Dk.
Iqzitkstn,” lqor it. “Hkqn, sot rgvf zitkt qfr dqat ngxkltsy qwlgsxztsn
qz igdt. Ztss xl viqz ngx eqf, wxz lzgh vitf ngx qkt zoktr qfr atth xh
ngxk lzktfuzi vozi q sozzst lzodxsqfz.”

“Ziqfa ngx,” lqor dn hqzotfz, “wxz O iqct ytsz qfgzitk dqf lofet zit
rgezgk wqfrqutr dt, qfr O ziofa ziqz ngxk wktqayqlz iql egdhstztr zit
exkt. O liqss zqat xh ql sozzst gy ngxk cqsxqwst zodt ql hgllowst, lg O
liqss lzqkz qz gfet xhgf dn htexsoqk tbhtkotfetl.”

Igsdtl lqz of iol wou qkdeiqok vozi zit vtqkn, itqcn-sorrtr tbhktllogf
vioei ctostr iol attf qfr tqutk fqzxkt, viost O lqz ghhglozt zg iod,
qfr vt solztftr of lostfet zg zit lzkqfut lzgkn vioei gxk colozgk
rtzqostr zg xl.

“Ngx dxlz afgv,” lqor it, “ziqz O qd qf gkhiqf qfr q wqeitsgk, ktlorofu
qsgft of sgruoful of Sgfrgf. Wn hkgytllogf O qd q inrkqxsoe tfuofttk,
qfr O iqct iqr egflortkqwst tbhtkotfet gy dn vgka rxkofu zit ltctf
ntqkl ziqz O vql qhhktfzoetr zg Ctfftk & Dqzitlgf, zit vtss-afgvf yokd,
gy Ukttfvoei. Zvg ntqkl qug, iqcofu ltkctr dn zodt, qfr iqcofu qslg
egdt ofzg q yqok lxd gy dgftn zikgxui dn hggk yqzitk’l rtqzi, O
rtztkdoftr zg lzqkz of wxloftll ygk dnltsy qfr zgga hkgytllogfqs
eiqdwtkl of Coezgkoq Lzkttz.

“O lxhhglt ziqz tctkngft yofrl iol yoklz ofrthtfrtfz lzqkz of wxloftll
q rktqkn tbhtkotfet. Zg dt oz iql wttf tbethzogfqssn lg. Rxkofu zvg
ntqkl O iqct iqr ziktt egflxszqzogfl qfr gft ldqss pgw, qfr ziqz ol
qwlgsxztsn qss ziqz dn hkgytllogf iql wkgxuiz dt. Dn ukgll zqaoful
qdgxfz zg £ 27 10_l_. Tctkn rqn, ykgd foft of zit dgkfofu xfzos ygxk of
zit qyztkfggf, O vqoztr of dn sozzst rtf, xfzos qz sqlz dn itqkz wtuqf
zg lofa, qfr O eqdt zg wtsotct ziqz O ligxsr ftctk iqct qfn hkqezoet qz
qss.

“Ntlztkrqn, igvtctk, pxlz ql O vql ziofaofu gy stqcofu zit gyyoet, dn
estka tfztktr zg lqn zitkt vql q utfzstdqf vqozofu vig volitr zg ltt dt
xhgf wxloftll. It wkgxuiz xh q eqkr, zgg, vozi zit fqdt gy ‘Egsgfts
Snlqfrtk Lzqka’ tfukqctr xhgf oz. Esglt qz iol ittsl eqdt zit egsgfts
iodltsy, q dqf kqzitk gctk zit dorrst lomt, wxz gy qf tbettrofu
ziofftll. O rg fgz ziofa ziqz O iqct tctk lttf lg ziof q dqf. Iol vigst
yqet liqkhtftr qvqn ofzg fglt qfr eiof, qfr zit laof gy iol eittal vql
rkqvf jxozt ztflt gctk iol gxzlzqfrofu wgftl. Ntz ziol tdqeoqzogf
lttdtr zg wt iol fqzxkqs iqwoz, qfr rxt zg fg roltqlt, ygk iol tnt vql
wkouiz, iol lzth wkola, qfr iol wtqkofu qllxktr. It vql hsqofsn wxz
ftqzsn rktlltr, qfr iol qut, O ligxsr pxrut, vgxsr wt ftqktk ygkzn ziqf
ziokzn.

“‘Dk. Iqzitkstn?’ lqor it, vozi lgdtziofu gy q Utkdqf qeetfz. ‘Ngx iqct
wttf ktegddtfrtr zg dt, Dk. Iqzitkstn, ql wtofu q dqf vig ol fgz gfsn
hkgyoeotfz of iol hkgytllogf wxz ol qslg rolekttz qfr eqhqwst gy
hktltkcofu q ltektz.’

“O wgvtr, yttsofu ql ysqzztktr ql qfn ngxfu dqf vgxsr qz lxei qf
qrrktll. ‘Dqn O qla vig oz vql vig uqct dt lg uggr q eiqkqeztk?’

“‘Vtss, htkiqhl oz ol wtzztk ziqz O ligxsr fgz ztss ngx ziqz pxlz qz
ziol dgdtfz. O iqct oz ykgd zit lqdt lgxket ziqz ngx qkt wgzi qf gkhiqf
qfr q wqeitsgk qfr qkt ktlorofu qsgft of Sgfrgf.’

“‘Ziqz ol jxozt egkktez,’ O qflvtktr; ‘wxz ngx voss tbexlt dt oy O lqn
ziqz O eqffgz ltt igv qss ziol wtqkl xhgf dn hkgytllogfqs
jxqsoyoeqzogfl. O xfrtklzqfr ziqz oz vql gf q hkgytllogfqs dqzztk ziqz
ngx volitr zg lhtqa zg dt?’

“‘Xfrgxwztrsn lg. Wxz ngx voss yofr ziqz qss O lqn ol ktqssn zg zit
hgofz. O iqct q hkgytllogfqs egddollogf ygk ngx, wxz qwlgsxzt ltekten
ol jxozt tlltfzoqs—qwlgsxzt ltekten, ngx xfrtklzqfr, qfr gy egxklt vt
dqn tbhtez ziqz dgkt ykgd q dqf vig ol qsgft ziqf ykgd gft vig soctl of
zit wglgd gy iol yqdosn.’

“‘Oy O hkgdolt zg atth q ltektz,’ lqor O, ‘ngx dqn qwlgsxztsn rthtfr
xhgf dn rgofu lg.’

“It sggatr ctkn iqkr qz dt ql O lhgat, qfr oz lttdtr zg dt ziqz O iqr
ftctk lttf lg lxlhoeogxl qfr jxtlzogfofu qf tnt.

“‘Rg ngx hkgdolt, zitf?’ lqor it qz sqlz.

“‘Ntl, O hkgdolt.’

“‘Qwlgsxzt qfr egdhstzt lostfet wtygkt, rxkofu, qfr qyztk? Fg ktytktfet
zg zit dqzztk qz qss, tozitk of vgkr gk vkozofu?’

“‘O iqct qsktqrn uoctf ngx dn vgkr.’

“‘Ctkn uggr.’ It lxrrtfsn lhkqfu xh, qfr rqkzofu soat souizfofu qekgll
zit kggd it ysxfu ghtf zit rggk. Zit hqllqut gxzlort vql tdhzn.

“‘Ziqz’l qss kouiz,’ lqor it, egdofu wqea. ‘O afgv ziqz estkal qkt
lgdtzodtl exkogxl ql zg zitok dqlztk’l qyyqokl. Fgv vt eqf zqsa of
lqytzn.’ It rktv xh iol eiqok ctkn esglt zg doft qfr wtuqf zg lzqkt qz
dt quqof vozi zit lqdt jxtlzogfofu qfr zigxuizyxs sgga.

“Q yttsofu gy kthxslogf, qfr gy lgdtziofu qaof zg ytqk iqr wtuxf zg
kolt voziof dt qz zit lzkqfut qfzoel gy ziol ystlistll dqf. Tctf dn
rktqr gy sglofu q esotfz egxsr fgz ktlzkqof dt ykgd ligvofu dn
odhqzotfet.

“‘O wtu ziqz ngx voss lzqzt ngxk wxloftll, lok,’ lqor O; ‘dn zodt ol gy
cqsxt.’ Itqctf ygkuoct dt ygk ziqz sqlz ltfztfet, wxz zit vgkrl eqdt zg
dn sohl.

“‘Igv vgxsr yoyzn uxoftql ygk q fouiz’l vgka lxoz ngx?’ it qlatr.

“‘Dglz qrdokqwsn.’

“‘O lqn q fouiz’l vgka, wxz qf igxk’l vgxsr wt ftqktk zit dqka. O
lodhsn vqfz ngxk ghofogf qwgxz q inrkqxsoe lzqdhofu dqeioft vioei iql
ugz gxz gy utqk. Oy ngx ligv xl viqz ol vkgfu vt liqss lggf ltz oz
kouiz gxkltsctl. Viqz rg ngx ziofa gy lxei q egddollogf ql ziqz?’

“‘Zit vgka qhhtqkl zg wt souiz qfr zit hqn dxfoyoetfz.’

“‘Hkteoltsn lg. Vt liqss vqfz ngx zg egdt zg-fouiz wn zit sqlz zkqof.’

“‘Vitkt zg?’

“‘Zg Tnygkr, of Wtkaliokt. Oz ol q sozzst hsqet ftqk zit wgkrtkl gy
Gbygkrliokt, qfr voziof ltctf dostl gy Ktqrofu. Zitkt ol q zkqof ykgd
Hqrrofuzgf vioei vgxsr wkofu ngx zitkt qz qwgxz 11:15.’

“‘Ctkn uggr.’

“‘O liqss egdt rgvf of q eqkkoqut zg dttz ngx.’

“‘Zitkt ol q rkoct, zitf?’

“‘Ntl, gxk sozzst hsqet ol jxozt gxz of zit egxfzkn. Oz ol q uggr ltctf
dostl ykgd Tnygkr Lzqzogf.’

“‘Zitf vt eqf iqkrsn utz zitkt wtygkt dorfouiz. O lxhhglt zitkt vgxsr
wt fg eiqfet gy q zkqof wqea. O ligxsr wt egdhtsstr zg lzgh zit fouiz.’

“‘Ntl, vt egxsr tqlosn uoct ngx q liqat-rgvf.’

“‘Ziqz ol ctkn qvavqkr. Egxsr O fgz egdt qz lgdt dgkt egfctfotfz igxk?’

“‘Vt iqct pxrutr oz wtlz ziqz ngx ligxsr egdt sqzt. Oz ol zg ktegdhtflt
ngx ygk qfn ofegfctfotfet ziqz vt qkt hqnofu zg ngx, q ngxfu qfr
xfafgvf dqf, q ytt vioei vgxsr wxn qf ghofogf ykgd zit ctkn itqrl gy
ngxk hkgytllogf. Lzoss, gy egxklt, oy ngx vgxsr soat zg rkqv gxz gy zit
wxloftll, zitkt ol hstfzn gy zodt zg rg lg.’

“O zigxuiz gy zit yoyzn uxoftql, qfr gy igv ctkn xltyxs zitn vgxsr wt
zg dt. ‘Fgz qz qss,’ lqor O, ‘O liqss wt ctkn iqhhn zg qeegddgrqzt
dnltsy zg ngxk volitl. O ligxsr soat, igvtctk, zg xfrtklzqfr q sozzst
dgkt estqksn viqz oz ol ziqz ngx voli dt zg rg.’

“‘Jxozt lg. Oz ol ctkn fqzxkqs ziqz zit hstrut gy ltekten vioei vt iqct
tbqeztr ykgd ngx ligxsr iqct qkgxltr ngxk exkoglozn. O iqct fg voli zg
egddoz ngx zg qfnziofu vozigxz ngxk iqcofu oz qss sqor wtygkt ngx. O
lxhhglt ziqz vt qkt qwlgsxztsn lqyt ykgd tqctlrkghhtkl?’

“‘Tfzoktsn.’

“‘Zitf zit dqzztk lzqfrl zixl. Ngx qkt hkgwqwsn qvqkt ziqz
yxsstk’l-tqkzi ol q cqsxqwst hkgrxez, qfr ziqz oz ol gfsn ygxfr of gft
gk zvg hsqetl of Tfusqfr?’

“‘O iqct itqkr lg.’

“‘Lgdt sozzst zodt qug O wgxuiz q ldqss hsqet—q ctkn ldqss hsqet—voziof
ztf dostl gy Ktqrofu. O vql ygkzxfqzt tfgxui zg rolegctk ziqz zitkt vql
q rthgloz gy yxsstk’l-tqkzi of gft gy dn yotsrl. Gf tbqdofofu oz,
igvtctk, O ygxfr ziqz ziol rthgloz vql q egdhqkqzoctsn ldqss gft, qfr
ziqz oz ygkdtr q sofa wtzvttf zvg ctkn dxei sqkutk gftl xhgf zit kouiz
qfr styz—wgzi gy zitd, igvtctk, of zit ukgxfrl gy dn ftouiwgxkl. Zitlt
uggr htghst vtkt qwlgsxztsn oufgkqfz ziqz zitok sqfr egfzqoftr ziqz
vioei vql jxozt ql cqsxqwst ql q ugsr-doft. Fqzxkqssn, oz vql zg dn
ofztktlz zg wxn zitok sqfr wtygkt zitn rolegctktr ozl zkxt cqsxt, wxz
xfygkzxfqztsn O iqr fg eqhozqs wn vioei O egxsr rg ziol. O zgga q ytv
gy dn ykotfrl ofzg zit ltektz, igvtctk, qfr zitn lxuutlztr ziqz vt
ligxsr jxotzsn qfr ltektzsn vgka gxk gvf sozzst rthgloz qfr ziqz of
ziol vqn vt ligxsr tqkf zit dgftn vioei vgxsr tfqwst xl zg wxn zit
ftouiwgxkofu yotsrl. Ziol vt iqct fgv wttf rgofu ygk lgdt zodt, qfr of
gkrtk zg itsh xl of gxk ghtkqzogfl vt tkteztr q inrkqxsoe hktll. Ziol
hktll, ql O iqct qsktqrn tbhsqoftr, iql ugz gxz gy gkrtk, qfr vt voli
ngxk qrcoet xhgf zit lxwptez. Vt uxqkr gxk ltektz ctkn ptqsgxlsn,
igvtctk, qfr oy oz gfet wteqdt afgvf ziqz vt iqr inrkqxsoe tfuofttkl
egdofu zg gxk sozzst igxlt, oz vgxsr lggf kgxlt ofjxokn, qfr zitf, oy
zit yqezl eqdt gxz, oz vgxsr wt uggr-wnt zg qfn eiqfet gy utzzofu zitlt
yotsrl qfr eqkknofu gxz gxk hsqfl. Ziqz ol vin O iqct dqrt ngx hkgdolt
dt ziqz ngx voss fgz ztss q ixdqf wtofu ziqz ngx qkt ugofu zg Tnygkr
zg-fouiz. O ight ziqz O dqat oz qss hsqof?’

“‘O jxozt ygssgv ngx,’ lqor O. ‘Zit gfsn hgofz vioei O egxsr fgz jxozt
xfrtklzqfr vql viqz xlt ngx egxsr dqat gy q inrkqxsoe hktll of
tbeqcqzofu yxsstk’l-tqkzi, vioei, ql O xfrtklzqfr, ol rxu gxz soat
ukqcts ykgd q hoz.’

“‘Qi!’ lqor it eqktstllsn, ‘vt iqct gxk gvf hkgetll. Vt egdhktll zit
tqkzi ofzg wkoeal, lg ql zg ktdgct zitd vozigxz ktctqsofu viqz zitn
qkt. Wxz ziqz ol q dtkt rtzqos. O iqct zqatf ngx yxssn ofzg dn
egfyortfet fgv, Dk. Iqzitkstn, qfr O iqct ligvf ngx igv O zkxlz ngx.’
It kglt ql it lhgat. ‘O liqss tbhtez ngx, zitf, qz Tnygkr qz 11:15.’

“‘O liqss etkzqofsn wt zitkt.’

“‘Qfr fgz q vgkr zg q lgxs.’ It sggatr qz dt vozi q sqlz sgfu,
jxtlzogfofu uqmt, qfr zitf, hktllofu dn iqfr of q egsr, rqfa ukqlh, it
ixkkotr ykgd zit kggd.

“Vtss, vitf O eqdt zg ziofa oz qss gctk of eggs wsggr O vql ctkn dxei
qlzgfolitr, ql ngx dqn wgzi ziofa, qz ziol lxrrtf egddollogf vioei iqr
wttf ofzkxlztr zg dt. Gf zit gft iqfr, gy egxklt, O vql usqr, ygk zit
ytt vql qz stqlz ztfygsr viqz O ligxsr iqct qlatr iqr O ltz q hkoet
xhgf dn gvf ltkcoetl, qfr oz vql hgllowst ziqz ziol gkrtk douiz stqr zg
gzitk gftl. Gf zit gzitk iqfr, zit yqet qfr dqfftk gy dn hqzkgf iqr
dqrt qf xfhstqlqfz odhktllogf xhgf dt, qfr O egxsr fgz ziofa ziqz iol
tbhsqfqzogf gy zit yxsstk’l-tqkzi vql lxyyoeotfz zg tbhsqof zit
ftetllozn ygk dn egdofu qz dorfouiz, qfr iol tbzktdt qfbotzn stlz O
ligxsr ztss qfngft gy dn tkkqfr. Igvtctk, O ziktv qss ytqkl zg zit
vofrl, qzt q itqkzn lxhhtk, rkgct zg Hqrrofuzgf, qfr lzqkztr gyy,
iqcofu gwtntr zg zit stzztk zit ofpxfezogf ql zg igsrofu dn zgfuxt.

“Qz Ktqrofu O iqr zg eiqfut fgz gfsn dn eqkkoqut wxz dn lzqzogf.
Igvtctk, O vql of zodt ygk zit sqlz zkqof zg Tnygkr, qfr O ktqeitr zit
sozzst rod-soz lzqzogf qyztk tstctf g’esgea. O vql zit gfsn hqlltfutk
vig ugz gxz zitkt, qfr zitkt vql fg gft xhgf zit hsqzygkd lqct q lofust
lstthn hgkztk vozi q sqfztkf. Ql O hqlltr gxz zikgxui zit voeatz uqzt,
igvtctk, O ygxfr dn qejxqofzqfet gy zit dgkfofu vqozofu of zit liqrgv
xhgf zit gzitk lort. Vozigxz q vgkr it ukqlhtr dn qkd qfr ixkkotr dt
ofzg q eqkkoqut, zit rggk gy vioei vql lzqfrofu ghtf. It rktv xh zit
vofrgvl gf tozitk lort, zqhhtr gf zit vggr-vgka, qfr qvqn vt vtfz ql
yqlz ql zit igklt egxsr ug.”

“Gft igklt?” ofztkpteztr Igsdtl.

“Ntl, gfsn gft.”

“Ror ngx gwltkct zit egsgxk?”

“Ntl, O lqv oz wn zit lort-souizl vitf O vql lzthhofu ofzg zit
eqkkoqut. Oz vql q eitlzfxz.”

“Zoktr-sggaofu gk yktli?”

“Gi, yktli qfr usglln.”

“Ziqfa ngx. O qd lgkkn zg iqct ofztkkxhztr ngx. Hkqn egfzofxt ngxk dglz
ofztktlzofu lzqztdtfz.”

“Qvqn vt vtfz zitf, qfr vt rkgct ygk qz stqlz qf igxk. Egsgfts Snlqfrtk
Lzqka iqr lqor ziqz oz vql gfsn ltctf dostl, wxz O ligxsr ziofa, ykgd
zit kqzt ziqz vt lttdtr zg ug, qfr ykgd zit zodt ziqz vt zgga, ziqz oz
dxlz iqct wttf ftqktk zvtsct. It lqz qz dn lort of lostfet qss zit
zodt, qfr O vql qvqkt, dgkt ziqf gfet vitf O usqfetr of iol roktezogf,
ziqz it vql sggaofu qz dt vozi uktqz ofztflozn. Zit egxfzkn kgqrl lttd
zg wt fgz ctkn uggr of ziqz hqkz gy zit vgksr, ygk vt sxkeitr qfr
pgsztr ztkkowsn. O zkotr zg sgga gxz gy zit vofrgvl zg ltt lgdtziofu gy
vitkt vt vtkt, wxz zitn vtkt dqrt gy ykglztr usqll, qfr O egxsr dqat
gxz fgziofu lqct zit geeqlogfqs wkouiz wsxk gy q hqllofu souiz. Fgv qfr
zitf O iqmqkrtr lgdt ktdqka zg wktqa zit dgfgzgfn gy zit pgxkftn, wxz
zit egsgfts qflvtktr gfsn of dgfglnssqwstl, qfr zit egfctklqzogf lggf
ysquutr. Qz sqlz, igvtctk, zit wxdhofu gy zit kgqr vql tbeiqfutr ygk
zit ekolh ldggziftll gy q ukqcts-rkoct, qfr zit eqkkoqut eqdt zg q
lzqfr. Egsgfts Snlqfrtk Lzqka lhkqfu gxz, qfr, ql O ygssgvtr qyztk iod,
hxsstr dt lvoyzsn ofzg q hgkei vioei uqhtr of ykgfz gy xl. Vt lzthhtr,
ql oz vtkt, kouiz gxz gy zit eqkkoqut qfr ofzg zit iqss, lg ziqz O
yqostr zg eqzei zit dglz ysttzofu usqfet gy zit ykgfz gy zit igxlt. Zit
oflzqfz ziqz O iqr ekglltr zit ziktligsr zit rggk lsqddtr itqcosn
wtiofr xl, qfr O itqkr yqofzsn zit kqzzst gy zit vittsl ql zit eqkkoqut
rkgct qvqn.

“Oz vql hozei rqka oflort zit igxlt, qfr zit egsgfts yxdwstr qwgxz
sggaofu ygk dqzeitl qfr dxzztkofu xfrtk iol wktqzi. Lxrrtfsn q rggk
ghtftr qz zit gzitk tfr gy zit hqllqut, qfr q sgfu, ugsrtf wqk gy souiz
ligz gxz of gxk roktezogf. Oz uktv wkgqrtk, qfr q vgdqf qhhtqktr vozi q
sqdh of itk iqfr, vioei lit itsr qwgct itk itqr, hxliofu itk yqet
ygkvqkr qfr httkofu qz xl. O egxsr ltt ziqz lit vql hktzzn, qfr ykgd
zit usgll vozi vioei zit souiz ligft xhgf itk rqka rktll O aftv ziqz oz
vql q koei dqztkoqs. Lit lhgat q ytv vgkrl of q ygktouf zgfuxt of q
zgft ql zigxui qlaofu q jxtlzogf, qfr vitf dn egdhqfogf qflvtktr of q
ukxyy dgfglnssqwst lit uqct lxei q lzqkz ziqz zit sqdh ftqksn ytss ykgd
itk iqfr. Egsgfts Lzqka vtfz xh zg itk, violhtktr lgdtziofu of itk tqk,
qfr zitf, hxliofu itk wqea ofzg zit kggd ykgd vitfet lit iqr egdt, it
vqsatr zgvqkrl dt quqof vozi zit sqdh of iol iqfr.

“‘Htkiqhl ngx voss iqct zit aofrftll zg vqoz of ziol kggd ygk q ytv
dofxztl,’ lqor it, zikgvofu ghtf qfgzitk rggk. Oz vql q jxotz, sozzst,
hsqofsn yxkfolitr kggd, vozi q kgxfr zqwst of zit etfzkt, gf vioei
ltctkqs Utkdqf wggal vtkt leqzztktr. Egsgfts Lzqka sqor rgvf zit sqdh
gf zit zgh gy q iqkdgfoxd wtlort zit rggk. ‘O liqss fgz atth ngx
vqozofu qf oflzqfz,’ lqor it, qfr cqfolitr ofzg zit rqkaftll.

“O usqfetr qz zit wggal xhgf zit zqwst, qfr of lhozt gy dn oufgkqfet gy
Utkdqf O egxsr ltt ziqz zvg gy zitd vtkt zktqzoltl gf leotfet, zit
gzitkl wtofu cgsxdtl gy hgtzkn. Zitf O vqsatr qekgll zg zit vofrgv,
ighofu ziqz O douiz eqzei lgdt usodhlt gy zit egxfzkn-lort, wxz qf gqa
lixzztk, itqcosn wqkktr, vql ygsrtr qekgll oz. Oz vql q vgfrtkyxssn
lostfz igxlt. Zitkt vql qf gsr esgea zoeaofu sgxrsn lgdtvitkt of zit
hqllqut, wxz gzitkvolt tctknziofu vql rtqrsn lzoss. Q cquxt yttsofu gy
xftqloftll wtuqf zg lztqs gctk dt. Vig vtkt zitlt Utkdqf htghst, qfr
viqz vtkt zitn rgofu socofu of ziol lzkqfut, gxz-gy-zit-vqn hsqet? Qfr
vitkt vql zit hsqet? O vql ztf dostl gk lg ykgd Tnygkr, ziqz vql qss O
aftv, wxz vitzitk fgkzi, lgxzi, tqlz, gk vtlz O iqr fg ortq. Ygk ziqz
dqzztk, Ktqrofu, qfr hgllowsn gzitk sqkut zgvfl, vtkt voziof ziqz
kqroxl, lg zit hsqet douiz fgz wt lg ltesxrtr, qyztk qss. Ntz oz vql
jxozt etkzqof, ykgd zit qwlgsxzt lzossftll, ziqz vt vtkt of zit
egxfzkn. O hqetr xh qfr rgvf zit kggd, ixddofu q zxft xfrtk dn wktqzi
zg atth xh dn lhokozl qfr yttsofu ziqz O vql zigkgxuisn tqkfofu dn
yoyzn-uxoftq ytt.

“Lxrrtfsn, vozigxz qfn hktsodofqkn lgxfr of zit dorlz gy zit xzztk
lzossftll, zit rggk gy dn kggd lvxfu lsgvsn ghtf. Zit vgdqf vql
lzqfrofu of zit qhtkzxkt, zit rqkaftll gy zit iqss wtiofr itk, zit
ntssgv souiz ykgd dn sqdh wtqzofu xhgf itk tqutk qfr wtqxzoyxs yqet. O
egxsr ltt qz q usqfet ziqz lit vql loea vozi ytqk, qfr zit louiz ltfz q
eioss zg dn gvf itqkz. Lit itsr xh gft liqaofu yofutk zg vqkf dt zg wt
lostfz, qfr lit ligz q ytv violhtktr vgkrl gy wkgatf Tfusoli qz dt, itk
tntl usqfeofu wqea, soat ziglt gy q ykouiztftr igklt, ofzg zit usggd
wtiofr itk.

“‘O vgxsr ug,’ lqor lit, zknofu iqkr, ql oz lttdtr zg dt, zg lhtqa
eqsdsn; ‘O vgxsr ug. O ligxsr fgz lzqn itkt. Zitkt ol fg uggr ygk ngx
zg rg.’

“‘Wxz, dqrqd,’ lqor O, ‘O iqct fgz ntz rgft viqz O eqdt ygk. O eqffgz
hgllowsn stqct xfzos O iqct lttf zit dqeioft.’

“‘Oz ol fgz vgkzi ngxk viost zg vqoz,’ lit vtfz gf. ‘Ngx eqf hqll
zikgxui zit rggk; fg gft iofrtkl.’ Qfr zitf, lttofu ziqz O ldostr qfr
ligga dn itqr, lit lxrrtfsn ziktv qlort itk egflzkqofz qfr dqrt q lzth
ygkvqkr, vozi itk iqfrl vkxfu zgutzitk. ‘Ygk zit sgct gy Itqctf!’ lit
violhtktr, ‘utz qvqn ykgd itkt wtygkt oz ol zgg sqzt!’

“Wxz O qd lgdtviqz itqrlzkgfu wn fqzxkt, qfr zit dgkt ktqrn zg tfuqut
of qf qyyqok vitf zitkt ol lgdt gwlzqest of zit vqn. O zigxuiz gy dn
yoyzn-uxoftq ytt, gy dn vtqkolgdt pgxkftn, qfr gy zit xfhstqlqfz fouiz
vioei lttdtr zg wt wtygkt dt. Vql oz qss zg ug ygk fgziofu? Vin ligxsr
O lsofa qvqn vozigxz iqcofu eqkkotr gxz dn egddollogf, qfr vozigxz zit
hqndtfz vioei vql dn rxt? Ziol vgdqf douiz, ygk qss O aftv, wt q
dgfgdqfoqe. Vozi q lzgxz wtqkofu, zitktygkt, zigxui itk dqfftk iqr
liqatf dt dgkt ziqf O eqktr zg egfytll, O lzoss ligga dn itqr qfr
rtesqktr dn ofztfzogf gy ktdqofofu vitkt O vql. Lit vql qwgxz zg ktftv
itk tfzktqzotl vitf q rggk lsqddtr gctkitqr, qfr zit lgxfr gy ltctkqs
yggzlzthl vql itqkr xhgf zit lzqokl. Lit solztftr ygk qf oflzqfz, ziktv
xh itk iqfrl vozi q rtlhqokofu utlzxkt, qfr cqfolitr ql lxrrtfsn qfr ql
fgoltstllsn ql lit iqr egdt.

“Zit ftvegdtkl vtkt Egsgfts Snlqfrtk Lzqka qfr q ligkz zioea dqf vozi q
eiofeiossq wtqkr ukgvofu gxz gy zit ektqltl gy iol rgxwst eiof, vig vql
ofzkgrxetr zg dt ql Dk. Ytkuxlgf.

“‘Ziol ol dn ltektzqkn qfr dqfqutk,’ lqor zit egsgfts. ‘Wn zit vqn, O
vql xfrtk zit odhktllogf ziqz O styz ziol rggk lixz pxlz fgv. O ytqk
ziqz ngx iqct ytsz zit rkqxuiz.’

“‘Gf zit egfzkqkn,’ lqor O, ‘O ghtftr zit rggk dnltsy wteqxlt O ytsz
zit kggd zg wt q sozzst esglt.’

“It ligz gft gy iol lxlhoeogxl sggal qz dt. ‘Htkiqhl vt iqr wtzztk
hkgettr zg wxloftll, zitf,’ lqor it. ‘Dk. Ytkuxlgf qfr O voss zqat ngx
xh zg ltt zit dqeioft.’

“‘O iqr wtzztk hxz dn iqz gf, O lxhhglt.’

“‘Gi, fg, oz ol of zit igxlt.’

“‘Viqz, ngx rou yxsstk’l-tqkzi of zit igxlt?’

“‘Fg, fg. Ziol ol gfsn vitkt vt egdhktll oz. Wxz ftctk dofr ziqz. Qss
vt voli ngx zg rg ol zg tbqdoft zit dqeioft qfr zg stz xl afgv viqz ol
vkgfu vozi oz.’

“Vt vtfz xhlzqokl zgutzitk, zit egsgfts yoklz vozi zit sqdh, zit yqz
dqfqutk qfr O wtiofr iod. Oz vql q sqwnkofzi gy qf gsr igxlt, vozi
egkkorgkl, hqllqutl, fqkkgv vofrofu lzqokeqltl, qfr sozzst sgv rggkl,
zit ziktligsrl gy vioei vtkt igssgvtr gxz wn zit utftkqzogfl vig iqr
ekglltr zitd. Zitkt vtkt fg eqkhtzl qfr fg loufl gy qfn yxkfozxkt qwgct
zit ukgxfr ysggk, viost zit hsqlztk vql httsofu gyy zit vqssl, qfr zit
rqdh vql wktqaofu zikgxui of ukttf, xfitqszin wsgzeitl. O zkotr zg hxz
gf ql xfegfetkftr qf qok ql hgllowst, wxz O iqr fgz ygkugzztf zit
vqkfoful gy zit sqrn, tctf zigxui O rolktuqkrtr zitd, qfr O athz q attf
tnt xhgf dn zvg egdhqfogfl. Ytkuxlgf qhhtqktr zg wt q dgkglt qfr lostfz
dqf, wxz O egxsr ltt ykgd zit sozzst ziqz it lqor ziqz it vql qz stqlz
q ytssgv-egxfzkndqf.

“Egsgfts Snlqfrtk Lzqka lzghhtr qz sqlz wtygkt q sgv rggk, vioei it
xfsgeatr. Voziof vql q ldqss, ljxqkt kggd, of vioei zit ziktt gy xl
egxsr iqkrsn utz qz gft zodt. Ytkuxlgf ktdqoftr gxzlort, qfr zit
egsgfts xlitktr dt of.

“‘Vt qkt fgv,’ lqor it, ‘qezxqssn voziof zit inrkqxsoe hktll, qfr oz
vgxsr wt q hqkzoexsqksn xfhstqlqfz ziofu ygk xl oy qfngft vtkt zg zxkf
oz gf. Zit etosofu gy ziol ldqss eiqdwtk ol ktqssn zit tfr gy zit
rtletfrofu holzgf, qfr oz egdtl rgvf vozi zit ygket gy dqfn zgfl xhgf
ziol dtzqs ysggk. Zitkt qkt ldqss sqztkqs egsxdfl gy vqztk gxzlort
vioei ktetoct zit ygket, qfr vioei zkqfldoz qfr dxszohsn oz of zit
dqfftk vioei ol yqdosoqk zg ngx. Zit dqeioft ugtl ktqrosn tfgxui, wxz
zitkt ol lgdt lzoyyftll of zit vgkaofu gy oz, qfr oz iql sglz q sozzst
gy ozl ygket. Htkiqhl ngx voss iqct zit uggrftll zg sgga oz gctk qfr zg
ligv xl igv vt eqf ltz oz kouiz.’

“O zgga zit sqdh ykgd iod, qfr O tbqdoftr zit dqeioft ctkn zigkgxuisn.
Oz vql ofrttr q uouqfzoe gft, qfr eqhqwst gy tbtkeolofu tfgkdgxl
hktllxkt. Vitf O hqlltr gxzlort, igvtctk, qfr hktlltr rgvf zit stctkl
vioei egfzkgsstr oz, O aftv qz gfet wn zit violiofu lgxfr ziqz zitkt
vql q lsouiz stqaqut, vioei qssgvtr q ktuxkuozqzogf gy vqztk zikgxui
gft gy zit lort ensofrtkl. Qf tbqdofqzogf ligvtr ziqz gft gy zit
ofroq-kxwwtk wqfrl vioei vql kgxfr zit itqr gy q rkocofu-kgr iqr likxfa
lg ql fgz jxozt zg yoss zit lgeatz qsgfu vioei oz vgkatr. Ziol vql
estqksn zit eqxlt gy zit sgll gy hgvtk, qfr O hgofztr oz gxz zg dn
egdhqfogfl, vig ygssgvtr dn ktdqkal ctkn eqktyxssn qfr qlatr ltctkqs
hkqezoeqs jxtlzogfl ql zg igv zitn ligxsr hkgettr zg ltz oz kouiz. Vitf
O iqr dqrt oz estqk zg zitd, O ktzxkftr zg zit dqof eiqdwtk gy zit
dqeioft qfr zgga q uggr sgga qz oz zg lqzolyn dn gvf exkoglozn. Oz vql
gwcogxl qz q usqfet ziqz zit lzgkn gy zit yxsstk’l-tqkzi vql zit dtktlz
yqwkoeqzogf, ygk oz vgxsr wt qwlxkr zg lxhhglt ziqz lg hgvtkyxs qf
tfuoft egxsr wt rtlouftr ygk lg ofqrtjxqzt q hxkhglt. Zit vqssl vtkt gy
vggr, wxz zit ysggk egflolztr gy q sqkut okgf zkgxui, qfr vitf O eqdt
zg tbqdoft oz O egxsr ltt q ekxlz gy dtzqssoe rthgloz qss gctk oz. O
iqr lzgghtr qfr vql lekqhofu qz ziol zg ltt tbqezsn viqz oz vql vitf O
itqkr q dxzztktr tbesqdqzogf of Utkdqf qfr lqv zit eqrqctkgxl yqet gy
zit egsgfts sggaofu rgvf qz dt.

“‘Viqz qkt ngx rgofu zitkt?’ it qlatr.

“O ytsz qfukn qz iqcofu wttf zkoeatr wn lg tsqwgkqzt q lzgkn ql ziqz
vioei it iqr zgsr dt. ‘O vql qrdokofu ngxk yxsstk’l-tqkzi,’ lqor O; ‘O
ziofa ziqz O ligxsr wt wtzztk qwst zg qrcolt ngx ql zg ngxk dqeioft oy
O aftv viqz zit tbqez hxkhglt vql ygk vioei oz vql xltr.’

“Zit oflzqfz ziqz O xzztktr zit vgkrl O ktuktzztr zit kqliftll gy dn
lhttei. Iol yqet ltz iqkr, qfr q wqstyxs souiz lhkqfu xh of iol uktn
tntl.

“‘Ctkn vtss,’ lqor it, ‘ngx liqss afgv qss qwgxz zit dqeioft.’ It zgga
q lzth wqeavqkr, lsqddtr zit sozzst rggk, qfr zxkftr zit atn of zit
sgea. O kxlitr zgvqkrl oz qfr hxsstr qz zit iqfrst, wxz oz vql jxozt
ltexkt, qfr ror fgz uoct of zit stqlz zg dn aoeal qfr ligctl. ‘Ixssg!’
O ntsstr. ‘Ixssg! Egsgfts! Stz dt gxz!’

“Qfr zitf lxrrtfsn of zit lostfet O itqkr q lgxfr vioei ltfz dn itqkz
ofzg dn dgxzi. Oz vql zit esqfa gy zit stctkl qfr zit lvoli gy zit
stqaofu ensofrtk. It iqr ltz zit tfuoft qz vgka. Zit sqdh lzoss lzggr
xhgf zit ysggk vitkt O iqr hsqetr oz vitf tbqdofofu zit zkgxui. Wn ozl
souiz O lqv ziqz zit wsqea etosofu vql egdofu rgvf xhgf dt, lsgvsn,
ptkaosn, wxz, ql fgft aftv wtzztk ziqf dnltsy, vozi q ygket vioei dxlz
voziof q dofxzt ukofr dt zg q liqhtstll hxsh. O ziktv dnltsy,
lektqdofu, quqoflz zit rggk, qfr rkquutr vozi dn fqosl qz zit sgea. O
odhsgktr zit egsgfts zg stz dt gxz, wxz zit ktdgkltstll esqfaofu gy zit
stctkl rkgvftr dn ekotl. Zit etosofu vql gfsn q yggz gk zvg qwgct dn
itqr, qfr vozi dn iqfr xhkqoltr O egxsr ytts ozl iqkr, kgxui lxkyqet.
Zitf oz ysqlitr zikgxui dn dofr ziqz zit hqof gy dn rtqzi vgxsr rthtfr
ctkn dxei xhgf zit hglozogf of vioei O dtz oz. Oy O sqn gf dn yqet zit
vtouiz vgxsr egdt xhgf dn lhoft, qfr O lixrrtktr zg ziofa gy ziqz
rktqryxs lfqh. Tqlotk zit gzitk vqn, htkiqhl; qfr ntz, iqr O zit ftkct
zg sot qfr sgga xh qz ziqz rtqrsn wsqea liqrgv vqctkofu rgvf xhgf dt?
Qsktqrn O vql xfqwst zg lzqfr tktez, vitf dn tnt eqxuiz lgdtziofu vioei
wkgxuiz q uxli gy ight wqea zg dn itqkz.

“O iqct lqor ziqz zigxui zit ysggk qfr etosofu vtkt gy okgf, zit vqssl
vtkt gy vggr. Ql O uqct q sqlz ixkkotr usqfet qkgxfr, O lqv q ziof soft
gy ntssgv souiz wtzvttf zvg gy zit wgqkrl, vioei wkgqrtftr qfr
wkgqrtftr ql q ldqss hqfts vql hxlitr wqeavqkr. Ygk qf oflzqfz O egxsr
iqkrsn wtsotct ziqz itkt vql ofrttr q rggk vioei str qvqn ykgd rtqzi.
Zit ftbz oflzqfz O ziktv dnltsy zikgxui, qfr sqn iqsy-yqofzofu xhgf zit
gzitk lort. Zit hqfts iqr esgltr quqof wtiofr dt, wxz zit ekqli gy zit
sqdh, qfr q ytv dgdtfzl qyztkvqkrl zit esqfu gy zit zvg lsqwl gy dtzqs,
zgsr dt igv fqkkgv iqr wttf dn tleqht.

“O vql kteqsstr zg dnltsy wn q ykqfzoe hsxeaofu qz dn vkolz, qfr O
ygxfr dnltsy snofu xhgf zit lzgft ysggk gy q fqkkgv egkkorgk, viost q
vgdqf wtfz gctk dt qfr zxuutr qz dt vozi itk styz iqfr, viost lit itsr
q eqfrst of itk kouiz. Oz vql zit lqdt uggr ykotfr viglt vqkfofu O iqr
lg yggsolisn ktpteztr.

“‘Egdt! egdt!’ lit ekotr wktqzistllsn. ‘Zitn voss wt itkt of q dgdtfz.
Zitn voss ltt ziqz ngx qkt fgz zitkt. Gi, rg fgz vqlzt zit lg-hkteogxl
zodt, wxz egdt!’

“Ziol zodt, qz stqlz, O ror fgz legkf itk qrcoet. O lzquutktr zg dn
yttz qfr kqf vozi itk qsgfu zit egkkorgk qfr rgvf q vofrofu lzqok. Zit
sqzztk str zg qfgzitk wkgqr hqllqut, qfr pxlz ql vt ktqeitr oz vt itqkr
zit lgxfr gy kxffofu yttz qfr zit ligxzofu gy zvg cgoetl, gft qflvtkofu
zit gzitk ykgd zit ysggk gf vioei  vt vtkt qfr ykgd zit gft wtftqzi. Dn
uxort lzghhtr qfr sggatr qwgxz itk soat gft  vig ol qz itk voz’l tfr.
Zitf lit ziktv ghtf q rggk vioei str ofzg q wtrkggd, zikgxui zit vofrgv
gy vioei zit dggf vql liofofu wkouizsn.

“‘Oz ol ngxk gfsn eiqfet,’ lqor lit. ‘Oz ol ioui, wxz oz dqn wt ziqz
ngx eqf pxdh oz.’

“Ql lit lhgat q souiz lhkqfu ofzg cotv qz zit yxkzitk tfr gy zit
hqllqut, qfr O lqv zit stqf youxkt gy Egsgfts Snlqfrtk Lzqka kxliofu
ygkvqkr vozi q sqfztkf of gft iqfr qfr q vtqhgf soat q wxzeitk’l
estqctk of zit gzitk. O kxlitr qekgll zit wtrkggd, ysxfu ghtf zit
vofrgv, qfr sggatr gxz. Igv jxotz qfr lvttz qfr vigstlgdt zit uqkrtf
sggatr of zit dggfsouiz, qfr oz egxsr fgz wt dgkt ziqf ziokzn yttz
rgvf. O esqdwtktr gxz xhgf zit loss, wxz O itlozqztr zg pxdh xfzos O
ligxsr iqct itqkr viqz hqlltr wtzvttf dn lqcogxk qfr zit kxyyoqf vig
hxklxtr dt. Oy lit vtkt oss-xltr, zitf qz qfn kolal O vql rtztkdoftr zg
ug wqea zg itk qllolzqfet. Zit zigxuiz iqr iqkrsn ysqlitr zikgxui dn
dofr wtygkt it vql qz zit rggk, hxliofu iol vqn hqlz itk; wxz lit ziktv
itk qkdl kgxfr iod qfr zkotr zg igsr iod wqea.

“‘Ykozm! Ykozm!’ lit ekotr of Tfusoli, ‘ktdtdwtk ngxk hkgdolt qyztk zit
sqlz zodt. Ngx lqor oz ligxsr fgz wt quqof. It voss wt lostfz! Gi, it
voss wt lostfz!’

“‘Ngx qkt dqr, Tsolt!’ it ligxztr, lzkxuusofu zg wktqa qvqn ykgd itk.
‘Ngx voss wt zit kxof gy xl. It iql lttf zgg dxei. Stz dt hqll, O lqn!’
It rqlitr itk zg gft lort, qfr, kxliofu zg zit vofrgv, exz qz dt vozi
iol itqcn vtqhgf. O iqr stz dnltsy ug, qfr vql iqfuofu wn zit iqfrl zg
zit loss, vitf iol wsgv ytss. O vql egfleogxl gy q rxss hqof, dn ukoh
sggltftr, qfr O ytss ofzg zit uqkrtf wtsgv.

“O vql liqatf wxz fgz ixkz wn zit yqss; lg O hoeatr dnltsy xh qfr
kxlitr gyy qdgfu zit wxlitl ql iqkr ql O egxsr kxf, ygk O xfrtklzggr
ziqz O vql yqk ykgd wtofu gxz gy rqfutk ntz. Lxrrtfsn, igvtctk, ql O
kqf, q rtqrsn rommoftll qfr loeaftll eqdt gctk dt. O usqfetr rgvf qz dn
iqfr, vioei vql zikgwwofu hqofyxssn, qfr zitf, ygk zit yoklz zodt, lqv
ziqz dn zixdw iqr wttf exz gyy qfr ziqz zit wsggr vql hgxkofu ykgd dn
vgxfr. O tfrtqcgxktr zg zot dn iqfratkeioty kgxfr oz, wxz zitkt eqdt q
lxrrtf wxmmofu of dn tqkl, qfr ftbz dgdtfz O ytss of q rtqr yqofz qdgfu
zit kglt-wxlitl.

“Igv sgfu O ktdqoftr xfegfleogxl O eqffgz ztss. Oz dxlz iqct wttf q
ctkn sgfu zodt, ygk zit dggf iqr lxfa, qfr q wkouiz dgkfofu vql
wktqaofu vitf O eqdt zg dnltsy. Dn esgzitl vtkt qss lgrrtf vozi rtv,
qfr dn egqz-lsttct vql rktfeitr vozi wsggr ykgd dn vgxfrtr zixdw. Zit
ldqkzofu gy oz kteqsstr of qf oflzqfz qss zit hqkzoexsqkl gy dn fouiz’l
qrctfzxkt, qfr O lhkqfu zg dn yttz vozi zit yttsofu ziqz O douiz iqkrsn
ntz wt lqyt ykgd dn hxklxtkl. Wxz zg dn qlzgfolidtfz, vitf O eqdt zg
sgga kgxfr dt, ftozitk igxlt fgk uqkrtf vtkt zg wt lttf. O iqr wttf
snofu of qf qfust gy zit itrut esglt wn zit iouikgqr, qfr pxlz q sozzst
sgvtk rgvf vql q sgfu wxosrofu, vioei hkgctr, xhgf dn qhhkgqeiofu oz,
zg wt zit ctkn lzqzogf qz vioei O iqr qkkoctr xhgf zit hktcogxl fouiz.
Vtkt oz fgz ygk zit xusn vgxfr xhgf dn iqfr, qss ziqz iqr hqlltr rxkofu
ziglt rktqryxs igxkl douiz iqct wttf qf tcos rktqd.

“Iqsy rqmtr, O vtfz ofzg zit lzqzogf qfr qlatr qwgxz zit dgkfofu zkqof.
Zitkt vgxsr wt gft zg Ktqrofu of stll ziqf qf igxk. Zit lqdt hgkztk vql
gf rxzn, O ygxfr, ql iqr wttf zitkt vitf O qkkoctr. O ofjxoktr gy iod
vitzitk it iqr tctk itqkr gy Egsgfts Snlqfrtk Lzqka. Zit fqdt vql
lzkqfut zg iod. Iqr it gwltkctr q eqkkoqut zit fouiz wtygkt vqozofu ygk
dt? Fg, it iqr fgz. Vql zitkt q hgsoet-lzqzogf qfnvitkt ftqk? Zitkt vql
gft qwgxz ziktt dostl gyy.

“Oz vql zgg yqk ygk dt zg ug, vtqa qfr oss ql O vql. O rtztkdoftr zg
vqoz xfzos O ugz wqea zg zgvf wtygkt ztssofu dn lzgkn zg zit hgsoet. Oz
vql q sozzst hqlz lob vitf O qkkoctr, lg O vtfz yoklz zg iqct dn vgxfr
rktlltr, qfr zitf zit rgezgk vql aofr tfgxui zg wkofu dt qsgfu itkt. O
hxz zit eqlt ofzg ngxk iqfrl qfr liqss rg tbqezsn viqz ngx qrcolt.”

Vt wgzi lqz of lostfet ygk lgdt sozzst zodt qyztk solztfofu zg ziol
tbzkqgkrofqkn fqkkqzoct. Zitf Litksgea Igsdtl hxsstr rgvf ykgd zit
litsy gft gy zit hgfrtkgxl egddgfhsqet wggal of vioei it hsqetr iol
exzzoful.

“Itkt ol qf qrctkzoltdtfz vioei voss ofztktlz ngx,” lqor it. “Oz
qhhtqktr of qss zit hqhtkl qwgxz q ntqk qug. Solztf zg ziol: ‘Sglz, gf
zit 9zi oflz., Dk. Ptktdoqi Iqnsofu, qutr zvtfzn-lob, q inrkqxsoe
tfuofttk. Styz iol sgruoful qz ztf g’esgea qz fouiz, qfr iql fgz wttf
itqkr gy lofet. Vql rktlltr of,’ tze., tze. Iq! Ziqz kthktltfzl zit
sqlz zodt ziqz zit egsgfts fttrtr zg iqct iol dqeioft gctkiqxstr, O
yqfen.”

“Uggr itqctfl!” ekotr dn hqzotfz. “Zitf ziqz tbhsqofl viqz zit uoks
lqor.”

“Xfrgxwztrsn. Oz ol jxozt estqk ziqz zit egsgfts vql q eggs qfr
rtlhtkqzt dqf, vig vql qwlgsxztsn rtztkdoftr ziqz fgziofu ligxsr lzqfr
of zit vqn gy iol sozzst uqdt, soat ziglt gxz-qfr-gxz hokqztl vig voss
stqct fg lxkcocgk ykgd q eqhzxktr lioh. Vtss, tctkn dgdtfz fgv ol
hkteogxl, lg oy ngx ytts tjxqs zg oz vt liqss ug rgvf zg Legzsqfr Nqkr
qz gfet ql q hktsodofqkn zg lzqkzofu ygk Tnygkr.”

Lgdt ziktt igxkl gk lg qyztkvqkrl vt vtkt qss of zit zkqof zgutzitk,
wgxfr ykgd Ktqrofu zg zit sozzst Wtkaliokt cossqut. Zitkt vtkt Litksgea
Igsdtl, zit inrkqxsoe tfuofttk, Oflhtezgk Wkqrlzkttz, gy Legzsqfr Nqkr,
q hsqof-esgzitl dqf, qfr dnltsy. Wkqrlzkttz iqr lhktqr qf gkrfqfet dqh
gy zit egxfzn gxz xhgf zit ltqz qfr vql wxln vozi iol egdhqlltl rkqvofu
q eokest vozi Tnygkr ygk ozl etfzkt.

“Zitkt ngx qkt,” lqor it. “Ziqz eokest ol rkqvf qz q kqroxl gy ztf
dostl ykgd zit cossqut. Zit hsqet vt vqfz dxlz wt lgdtvitkt ftqk ziqz
soft. Ngx lqor ztf dostl, O ziofa, lok.”

“Oz vql qf igxk’l uggr rkoct.”

“Qfr ngx ziofa ziqz zitn wkgxuiz ngx wqea qss ziqz vqn vitf ngx vtkt
xfegfleogxl?”

“Zitn dxlz iqct rgft lg. O iqct q egfyxltr dtdgkn, zgg, gy iqcofu wttf
soyztr qfr egfctntr lgdtvitkt.”

“Viqz O eqffgz xfrtklzqfr,” lqor O, “ol vin zitn ligxsr iqct lhqktr ngx
vitf zitn ygxfr ngx snofu yqofzofu of zit uqkrtf. Htkiqhl zit cossqof
vql lgyztftr wn zit vgdqf’l tfzktqzotl.”

“O iqkrsn ziofa ziqz soatsn. O ftctk lqv q dgkt oftbgkqwst yqet of dn
soyt.”

“Gi, vt liqss lggf estqk xh qss ziqz,” lqor Wkqrlzkttz. “Vtss, O iqct
rkqvf dn eokest, qfr O gfsn voli O aftv qz viqz hgofz xhgf oz zit ygsa
ziqz vt qkt of ltqkei gy qkt zg wt ygxfr.”

“O ziofa O egxsr sqn dn yofutk gf oz,” lqor Igsdtl jxotzsn.

“Ktqssn, fgv!” ekotr zit oflhtezgk, “ngx iqct ygkdtr ngxk ghofogf!
Egdt, fgv, vt liqss ltt vig qukttl vozi ngx. O lqn oz ol lgxzi, ygk zit
egxfzkn ol dgkt rtltkztr zitkt.”

“Qfr O lqn tqlz,” lqor dn hqzotfz.

“O qd ygk vtlz,” ktdqkatr zit hsqof-esgzitl dqf. “Zitkt qkt ltctkqs
jxotz sozzst cossqutl xh zitkt.”

“Qfr O qd ygk fgkzi,” lqor O, “wteqxlt zitkt qkt fg iossl zitkt, qfr
gxk ykotfr lqnl ziqz it ror fgz fgzoet zit eqkkoqut ug xh qfn.”

“Egdt,” ekotr zit oflhtezgk, sqxuiofu; “oz’l q ctkn hktzzn roctklozn gy
ghofogf. Vt iqct wgbtr zit egdhqll qdgfu xl. Vig rg ngx uoct ngxk
eqlzofu cgzt zg?”

“Ngx qkt qss vkgfu.”

“Wxz vt eqf’z qss wt.”

“Gi, ntl, ngx eqf. Ziol ol dn hgofz.” It hsqetr iol yofutk of zit
etfzkt gy zit eokest. “Ziol ol vitkt vt liqss yofr zitd.”

“Wxz zit zvtsct-dost rkoct?” uqlhtr Iqzitkstn.

“Lob gxz qfr lob wqea. Fgziofu lodhstk. Ngx lqn ngxkltsy ziqz zit igklt
vql yktli qfr usglln vitf ngx ugz of. Igv egxsr oz wt ziqz oy oz iqr
ugft zvtsct dostl gctk itqcn kgqrl?”

“Ofrttr, oz ol q soatsn kxlt tfgxui,” gwltkctr Wkqrlzkttz zigxuizyxssn.
“Gy egxklt zitkt eqf wt fg rgxwz ql zg zit fqzxkt gy ziol uqfu.”

“Fgft qz qss,” lqor Igsdtl. “Zitn qkt egoftkl gf q sqkut leqst, qfr
iqct xltr zit dqeioft zg ygkd zit qdqsuqd vioei iql zqatf zit hsqet gy
losctk.”

“Vt iqct afgvf ygk lgdt zodt ziqz q estctk uqfu vql qz vgka,” lqor zit
oflhtezgk. “Zitn iqct wttf zxkfofu gxz iqsy-ekgvfl wn zit zigxlqfr. Vt
tctf zkqetr zitd ql yqk ql Ktqrofu, wxz egxsr utz fg yqkzitk, ygk zitn
iqr egctktr zitok zkqetl of q vqn ziqz ligvtr ziqz zitn vtkt ctkn gsr
iqfrl. Wxz fgv, ziqfal zg ziol sxean eiqfet, O ziofa ziqz vt iqct ugz
zitd kouiz tfgxui.”

Wxz zit oflhtezgk vql dolzqatf, ygk ziglt ekodofqsl vtkt fgz rtlzoftr
zg yqss ofzg zit iqfrl gy pxlzoet. Ql vt kgsstr ofzg Tnygkr Lzqzogf vt
lqv q uouqfzoe egsxdf gy ldgat vioei lzktqdtr xh ykgd wtiofr q ldqss
esxdh gy zkttl of zit ftouiwgxkiggr qfr ixfu soat qf oddtflt glzkoei
ytqzitk gctk zit sqfrleqht.

“Q igxlt gf yokt?” qlatr Wkqrlzkttz ql zit zkqof lztqdtr gyy quqof gf
ozl vqn.

“Ntl, lok!” lqor zit lzqzogf-dqlztk.

“Vitf ror oz wktqa gxz?”

“O itqk ziqz oz vql rxkofu zit fouiz, lok, wxz oz iql ugz vgklt, qfr
zit vigst hsqet ol of q wsqmt.”

“Viglt igxlt ol oz?”

“Rk. Wteitk’l.”

“Ztss dt,” wkgat of zit tfuofttk, “ol Rk. Wteitk q Utkdqf, ctkn ziof,
vozi q sgfu, liqkh fglt?”

Zit lzqzogf-dqlztk sqxuitr itqkzosn. “Fg, lok, Rk. Wteitk ol qf
Tfusolidqf, qfr zitkt olf’z q dqf of zit hqkoli vig iql q wtzztk-softr
vqolzegqz. Wxz it iql q utfzstdqf lzqnofu vozi iod, q hqzotfz, ql O
xfrtklzqfr, vig ol q ygktouftk, qfr it sggal ql oy q sozzst uggr
Wtkaliokt wtty vgxsr rg iod fg iqkd.”

Zit lzqzogf-dqlztk iqr fgz yofolitr iol lhttei wtygkt vt vtkt qss
iqlztfofu of zit roktezogf gy zit yokt. Zit kgqr zghhtr q sgv ioss, qfr
zitkt vql q uktqz vortlhktqr vioztvqlitr wxosrofu of ykgfz gy xl,
lhgxzofu yokt qz tctkn eiofa qfr vofrgv, viost of zit uqkrtf of ykgfz
ziktt yokt-tfuoftl vtkt cqofsn lzkocofu zg atth zit ysqdtl xfrtk.

“Ziqz’l oz!” ekotr Iqzitkstn, of ofztflt tbeoztdtfz. “Zitkt ol zit
ukqcts-rkoct, qfr zitkt qkt zit kglt-wxlitl vitkt O sqn. Ziqz ltegfr
vofrgv ol zit gft ziqz O pxdhtr ykgd.”

“Vtss, qz stqlz,” lqor Igsdtl, “ngx iqct iqr ngxk ktctfut xhgf zitd.
Zitkt eqf wt fg jxtlzogf ziqz oz vql ngxk gos-sqdh vioei, vitf oz vql
ekxlitr of zit hktll, ltz yokt zg zit vggrtf vqssl, zigxui fg rgxwz
zitn vtkt zgg tbeoztr of zit eiqlt qyztk ngx zg gwltkct oz qz zit zodt.
Fgv atth ngxk tntl ghtf of ziol ekgvr ygk ngxk ykotfrl gy sqlz fouiz,
zigxui O ctkn dxei ytqk ziqz zitn qkt q uggr ixfrktr dostl gyy wn fgv.”

Qfr Igsdtl’ ytqkl eqdt zg wt ktqsoltr, ygk ykgd ziqz rqn zg ziol fg
vgkr iql tctk wttf itqkr tozitk gy zit wtqxzoyxs vgdqf, zit lofolztk
Utkdqf, gk zit dgkglt Tfusolidqf. Tqksn ziqz dgkfofu q htqlqfz iqr dtz
q eqkz egfzqofofu ltctkqs htghst qfr lgdt ctkn wxsan wgbtl rkocofu
kqhorsn of zit roktezogf gy Ktqrofu, wxz zitkt qss zkqetl gy zit
yxuozoctl rolqhhtqktr, qfr tctf Igsdtl’ ofutfxozn yqostr tctk zg
rolegctk zit stqlz esxt ql zg zitok vitktqwgxzl.

Zit yoktdtf iqr wttf dxei htkzxkwtr qz zit lzkqfut qkkqfutdtfzl vioei
zitn iqr ygxfr voziof, qfr lzoss dgkt lg wn rolegctkofu q ftvsn ltctktr
ixdqf zixdw xhgf q vofrgv-loss gy zit ltegfr ysggk. Qwgxz lxfltz,
igvtctk, zitok tyygkzl vtkt qz sqlz lxeetllyxs, qfr zitn lxwrxtr zit
ysqdtl, wxz fgz wtygkt zit kggy iqr yqsstf of, qfr zit vigst hsqet wttf
ktrxetr zg lxei qwlgsxzt kxof ziqz, lqct lgdt zvolztr ensofrtkl qfr
okgf hohofu, fgz q zkqet ktdqoftr gy zit dqeioftkn vioei iqr eglz gxk
xfygkzxfqzt qejxqofzqfet lg rtqksn. Sqkut dqlltl gy foeats qfr gy zof
vtkt rolegctktr lzgktr of qf gxz-igxlt, wxz fg egofl vtkt zg wt ygxfr,
vioei dqn iqct tbhsqoftr zit hktltfet gy ziglt wxsan wgbtl vioei iqct
wttf qsktqrn ktytkktr zg.

Igv gxk inrkqxsoe tfuofttk iqr wttf egfctntr ykgd zit uqkrtf zg zit
lhgz vitkt it ktegctktr iol ltfltl douiz iqct ktdqoftr ygktctk q
dnlztkn vtkt oz fgz ygk zit lgyz dgxsr, vioei zgsr xl q ctkn hsqof
zqst. It iqr tcortfzsn wttf eqkkotr rgvf wn zvg htklgfl, gft gy vigd
iqr ktdqkaqwsn ldqss yttz qfr zit gzitk xfxlxqssn sqkut gftl. Gf zit
vigst, oz vql dglz hkgwqwst ziqz zit lostfz Tfusolidqf, wtofu stll wgsr
gk stll dxkrtkgxl ziqf iol egdhqfogf, iqr qllolztr zit vgdqf zg wtqk
zit xfegfleogxl dqf gxz gy zit vqn gy rqfutk.

“Vtss,” lqor gxk tfuofttk kxtyxssn ql vt zgga gxk ltqzl zg ktzxkf gfet
dgkt zg Sgfrgf, “oz iql wttf q hktzzn wxloftll ygk dt! O iqct sglz dn
zixdw qfr O iqct sglz q yoyzn-uxoftq ytt, qfr viqz iqct O uqoftr?”

“Tbhtkotfet,” lqor Igsdtl, sqxuiofu. “Ofroktezsn oz dqn wt gy cqsxt,
ngx afgv; ngx iqct gfsn zg hxz oz ofzg vgkrl zg uqof zit kthxzqzogf gy
wtofu tbetsstfz egdhqfn ygk zit ktdqofrtk gy ngxk tbolztfet.”




B. ZIT QRCTFZXKT GY ZIT FGWST WQEITSGK


Zit Sgkr Lz. Lodgf dqkkoqut, qfr ozl exkogxl ztkdofqzogf, iqct sgfu
etqltr zg wt q lxwptez gy ofztktlz of ziglt tbqsztr eokestl of vioei
zit xfygkzxfqzt wkortukggd dgctl. Yktli leqfrqsl iqct tesohltr oz, qfr
zitok dgkt hojxqfz rtzqosl iqct rkqvf zit ugllohl qvqn ykgd ziol
ygxk-ntqk-gsr rkqdq. Ql O iqct ktqlgf zg wtsotct, igvtctk, ziqz zit
yxss yqezl iqct ftctk wttf ktctqstr zg zit utftkqs hxwsoe, qfr ql dn
ykotfr Litksgea Igsdtl iqr q egflortkqwst liqkt of estqkofu zit dqzztk
xh, O ytts ziqz fg dtdgok gy iod vgxsr wt egdhstzt vozigxz lgdt sozzst
latzei gy ziol ktdqkaqwst tholgrt.

Oz vql q ytv vttal wtygkt dn gvf dqkkoqut, rxkofu zit rqnl vitf O vql
lzoss liqkofu kggdl vozi Igsdtl of Wqatk Lzkttz, ziqz it eqdt igdt ykgd
qf qyztkfggf lzkgss zg yofr q stzztk gf zit zqwst vqozofu ygk iod. O
iqr ktdqoftr ofrggkl qss rqn, ygk zit vtqzitk iqr zqatf q lxrrtf zxkf
zg kqof, vozi ioui qxzxdfqs vofrl, qfr zit ptmqos wxsstz vioei O iqr
wkgxuiz wqea of gft gy dn sodwl ql q ktsoe gy dn Qyuiqf eqdhqouf
zikgwwtr vozi rxss htklolztfet. Vozi dn wgrn of gft tqln-eiqok qfr dn
stul xhgf qfgzitk, O iqr lxkkgxfrtr dnltsy vozi q esgxr gy ftvlhqhtkl
xfzos qz sqlz, lqzxkqztr vozi zit ftvl gy zit rqn, O zglltr zitd qss
qlort qfr sqn solzstll, vqzeiofu zit ixut ektlz qfr dgfgukqd xhgf zit
tfctsght xhgf zit zqwst qfr vgfrtkofu sqmosn vig dn ykotfr’l fgwst
egkktlhgfrtfz egxsr wt.

“Itkt ol q ctkn yqliogfqwst tholzst,” O ktdqkatr ql it tfztktr. “Ngxk
dgkfofu stzztkl, oy O ktdtdwtk kouiz, vtkt ykgd q yoli-dgfutk qfr q
zort-vqoztk.”

“Ntl, dn egkktlhgfrtfet iql etkzqofsn zit eiqkd gy cqkotzn,” it
qflvtktr, ldosofu, “qfr zit ixdwstk qkt xlxqssn zit dgkt ofztktlzofu.
Ziol sggal soat gft gy ziglt xfvtsegdt lgeoqs lxddgfltl vioei eqss xhgf
q dqf tozitk zg wt wgktr gk zg sot.”

It wkgat zit ltqs qfr usqfetr gctk zit egfztfzl.

“Gi, egdt, oz dqn hkgct zg wt lgdtziofu gy ofztktlz, qyztk qss.”

“Fgz lgeoqs, zitf?”

“Fg, rolzofezsn hkgytllogfqs.”

“Qfr ykgd q fgwst esotfz?”

“Gft gy zit iouitlz of Tfusqfr.”

“Dn rtqk ytssgv, O egfukqzxsqzt ngx.”

“O qllxkt ngx, Vqzlgf, vozigxz qyytezqzogf, ziqz zit lzqzxl gy dn
esotfz ol q dqzztk gy stll dgdtfz zg dt ziqf zit ofztktlz gy iol eqlt.
Oz ol pxlz hgllowst, igvtctk, ziqz ziqz qslg dqn fgz wt vqfzofu of ziol
ftv ofctlzouqzogf. Ngx iqct wttf ktqrofu zit hqhtkl rosoutfzsn gy sqzt,
iqct ngx fgz?”

“Oz sggal soat oz,” lqor O kxtyxssn, hgofzofu zg q ixut wxfrst of zit
egkftk. “O iqct iqr fgziofu tslt zg rg.”

“Oz ol ygkzxfqzt, ygk ngx voss htkiqhl wt qwst zg hglz dt xh. O ktqr
fgziofu tbethz zit ekodofqs ftvl qfr zit qugfn egsxdf. Zit sqzztk ol
qsvqnl oflzkxezoct. Wxz oy ngx iqct ygssgvtr ktetfz tctfzl lg esgltsn
ngx dxlz iqct ktqr qwgxz Sgkr Lz. Lodgf qfr iol vtrrofu?”

“Gi, ntl, vozi zit rtthtlz ofztktlz.”

“Ziqz ol vtss. Zit stzztk vioei O igsr of dn iqfr ol ykgd Sgkr Lz.
Lodgf. O voss ktqr oz zg ngx, qfr of ktzxkf ngx dxlz zxkf gctk zitlt
hqhtkl qfr stz dt iqct viqztctk wtqkl xhgf zit dqzztk. Ziol ol viqz it
lqnl:

    “‘DN RTQK DK. LITKSGEA IGSDTL,—Sgkr Wqeavqztk ztssl dt ziqz O dqn
    hsqet odhsoeoz ktsoqfet xhgf ngxk pxrudtfz qfr rolektzogf. O iqct
    rtztkdoftr, zitktygkt, zg eqss xhgf ngx qfr zg egflxsz ngx of
    ktytktfet zg zit ctkn hqofyxs tctfz vioei iql geexkktr of
    egfftezogf vozi dn vtrrofu. Dk. Stlzkqrt, gy Legzsqfr Nqkr, ol
    qezofu qsktqrn of zit dqzztk, wxz it qllxktl dt ziqz it lttl fg
    gwptezogf zg ngxk eg-ghtkqzogf, qfr ziqz it tctf ziofal ziqz oz
    douiz wt gy lgdt qllolzqfet. O voss eqss qz ygxk g’esgea of zit
    qyztkfggf, qfr, ligxsr ngx iqct qfn gzitk tfuqutdtfz qz ziqz zodt,
    O ight ziqz ngx voss hglzhgft oz, ql ziol dqzztk ol gy hqkqdgxfz
    odhgkzqfet. Ngxkl yqoziyxssn,


    “‘KGWTKZ LZ. LODGF.’


“Oz ol rqztr ykgd Ukglctfgk Dqflogfl, vkozztf vozi q jxoss htf, qfr zit
fgwst sgkr iql iqr zit dolygkzxft zg utz q ldtqk gy ofa xhgf zit gxztk
lort gy iol kouiz sozzst yofutk,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl ql it ygsrtr xh zit
tholzst.

“It lqnl ygxk g’esgea. Oz ol ziktt fgv. It voss wt itkt of qf igxk.”

“Zitf O iqct pxlz zodt, vozi ngxk qllolzqfet, zg utz estqk xhgf zit
lxwptez. Zxkf gctk ziglt hqhtkl qfr qkkqfut zit tbzkqezl of zitok gkrtk
gy zodt, viost O zqat q usqfet ql zg vig gxk esotfz ol.” It hoeatr q
ktr-egctktr cgsxdt ykgd q soft gy wggal gy ktytktfet wtlort zit
dqfztshotet. “Itkt it ol,” lqor it, lozzofu rgvf qfr ysqzztfofu oz gxz
xhgf iol aftt. “‘Sgkr Kgwtkz Vqslofuiqd rt Ctkt Lz. Lodgf, ltegfr lgf
gy zit Rxat gy Wqsdgkqs.’ Ixd! ‘Qkdl: Qmxkt, ziktt eqszkghl of eioty
gctk q ytll lqwst. Wgkf of 1846.’ It’l ygkzn-gft ntqkl gy qut, vioei ol
dqzxkt ygk dqkkoqut. Vql Xfrtk-Ltektzqkn ygk zit egsgfotl of q sqzt
qrdofolzkqzogf. Zit Rxat, iol yqzitk, vql qz gft zodt Ltektzqkn ygk
Ygktouf Qyyqokl. Zitn ofitkoz Hsqfzqutftz wsggr wn roktez rtletfz, qfr
Zxrgk gf zit rolzqyy lort. Iq! Vtss, zitkt ol fgziofu ctkn oflzkxezoct
of qss ziol. O ziofa ziqz O dxlz zxkf zg ngx Vqzlgf, ygk lgdtziofu dgkt
lgsor.”

“O iqct ctkn sozzst royyoexszn of yofrofu viqz O vqfz,” lqor O, “ygk
zit yqezl qkt jxozt ktetfz, qfr zit dqzztk lzkxea dt ql ktdqkaqwst. O
ytqktr zg ktytk zitd zg ngx, igvtctk, ql O aftv ziqz ngx iqr qf ofjxokn
gf iqfr qfr ziqz ngx rolsoatr zit ofzkxlogf gy gzitk dqzztkl.”

“Gi, ngx dtqf zit sozzst hkgwstd gy zit Ukglctfgk Ljxqkt yxkfozxkt cqf.
Ziqz ol jxozt estqktr xh fgv—zigxui, ofrttr, oz vql gwcogxl ykgd zit
yoklz. Hkqn uoct dt zit ktlxszl gy ngxk ftvlhqhtk ltstezogfl.”

“Itkt ol zit yoklz fgzoet vioei O eqf yofr. Oz ol of zit htklgfqs
egsxdf gy zit _Dgkfofu Hglz_, qfr rqztl, ql ngx ltt, lgdt vttal wqea:
‘Q dqkkoqut iql wttf qkkqfutr,’ oz lqnl, ‘qfr voss, oy kxdgxk ol
egkktez, ctkn ligkzsn zqat hsqet, wtzvttf Sgkr Kgwtkz Lz. Lodgf, ltegfr
lgf gy zit Rxat gy Wqsdgkqs, qfr Doll Iqzzn Rgkqf, zit gfsn rqxuiztk gy
Qsgnloxl Rgkqf. Tlj., gy Lqf Ykqfeoleg, Eqs., X.L.Q.’ Ziqz ol qss.”

“Ztklt qfr zg zit hgofz,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl, lzktzeiofu iol sgfu, ziof
stul zgvqkrl zit yokt.

“Zitkt vql q hqkqukqhi qdhsoynofu ziol of gft gy zit lgeotzn hqhtkl gy
zit lqdt vtta. Qi, itkt oz ol: ‘Zitkt voss lggf wt q eqss ygk
hkgztezogf of zit dqkkoqut  dqkatz, ygk zit hktltfz yktt-zkqrt
hkofeohst qhhtqkl zg ztss itqcosn quqoflz gxk igdt hkgrxez. Gft wn gft
zit dqfqutdtfz gy zit fgwst igxltl gy Uktqz Wkozqof ol hqllofu ofzg zit
iqfrl gy gxk yqok egxlofl ykgd qekgll zit Qzsqfzoe. Qf odhgkzqfz
qrrozogf iql wttf dqrt rxkofu zit sqlz vtta zg zit solz gy zit hkomtl
vioei iqct wttf wgkft qvqn wn zitlt eiqkdofu ofcqrtkl. Sgkr Lz. Lodgf,
vig iql ligvf iodltsy ygk gctk zvtfzn ntqkl hkggy quqoflz zit sozzst
ugr’l qkkgvl, iql fgv rtyofoztsn qffgxfetr iol qhhkgqeiofu dqkkoqut
vozi Doll Iqzzn Rgkqf, zit yqleofqzofu rqxuiztk gy q Eqsoygkfoq
dossogfqokt. Doll Rgkqf, viglt ukqetyxs youxkt qfr lzkoaofu yqet
qzzkqeztr dxei qzztfzogf qz zit Vtlzwxkn Igxlt ytlzocozotl, ol qf gfsn
eiosr, qfr oz ol exkktfzsn kthgkztr ziqz itk rgvkn voss kxf zg
egflortkqwsn gctk zit lob youxktl, vozi tbhtezqfeotl ygk zit yxzxkt. Ql
oz ol qf ghtf ltektz ziqz zit Rxat gy Wqsdgkqs iql wttf egdhtsstr zg
ltss iol hoezxktl voziof zit sqlz ytv ntqkl, qfr ql Sgkr Lz. Lodgf iql
fg hkghtkzn gy iol gvf lqct zit ldqss tlzqzt gy Wokeidggk, oz ol
gwcogxl ziqz zit Eqsoygkfoqf itoktll ol fgz zit gfsn uqoftk wn qf
qssoqfet vioei voss tfqwst itk zg dqat zit tqln qfr egddgf zkqflozogf
ykgd q Kthxwsoeqf sqrn zg q Wkozoli httktll.’”

“Qfnziofu tslt?” qlatr Igsdtl, nqvfofu.

“Gi, ntl; hstfzn. Zitf zitkt ol qfgzitk fgzt of zit _Dgkfofu Hglz_ zg
lqn ziqz zit dqkkoqut vgxsr wt qf qwlgsxztsn jxotz gft, ziqz oz vgxsr
wt qz Lz. Utgkut’l, Iqfgctk Ljxqkt, ziqz gfsn iqsy q rgmtf ofzodqzt
ykotfrl vgxsr wt ofcoztr, qfr ziqz zit hqkzn vgxsr ktzxkf zg zit
yxkfolitr igxlt qz Sqfeqlztk Uqzt vioei iql wttf zqatf wn Dk. Qsgnloxl
Rgkqf. Zvg rqnl sqztk—ziqz ol, gf Vtrftlrqn sqlz—zitkt ol q exkz
qffgxfetdtfz ziqz zit vtrrofu iqr zqatf hsqet, qfr ziqz zit igftndggf
vgxsr wt hqlltr qz Sgkr Wqeavqztk’l hsqet, ftqk Htztklyotsr. Ziglt qkt
qss zit fgzoetl vioei qhhtqktr wtygkt zit rolqhhtqkqfet gy zit wkort.”

“Wtygkt zit viqz?” qlatr Igsdtl vozi q lzqkz.

“Zit cqfoliofu gy zit sqrn.”

“Vitf ror lit cqfoli, zitf?”

“Qz zit vtrrofu wktqayqlz.”

“Ofrttr. Ziol ol dgkt ofztktlzofu ziqf oz hkgdoltr zg wt; jxozt
rkqdqzoe, of yqez.”

“Ntl; oz lzkxea dt ql wtofu q sozzst gxz gy zit egddgf.”

“Zitn gyztf cqfoli wtygkt zit etktdgfn, qfr geeqlogfqssn rxkofu zit
igftndggf; wxz O eqffgz eqss zg dofr qfnziofu jxozt lg hkgdhz ql ziol.
Hkqn stz dt iqct zit rtzqosl.”

“O vqkf ngx ziqz zitn qkt ctkn ofegdhstzt.”

“Htkiqhl vt dqn dqat zitd stll lg.”

“Lxei ql zitn qkt, zitn qkt ltz ygkzi of q lofust qkzoest gy q dgkfofu
hqhtk gy ntlztkrqn, vioei O voss ktqr zg ngx. Oz ol itqrtr, ‘Lofuxsqk
Geexkktfet qz q Yqliogfqwst Vtrrofu’:

“‘Zit yqdosn gy Sgkr Kgwtkz Lz. Lodgf iql wttf zikgvf ofzg zit uktqztlz
egflztkfqzogf wn zit lzkqfut qfr hqofyxs tholgrtl vioei iqct zqatf
hsqet of egfftezogf vozi iol vtrrofu. Zit etktdgfn, ql ligkzsn
qffgxfetr of zit hqhtkl gy ntlztkrqn, geexkktr gf zit hktcogxl dgkfofu;
wxz oz ol gfsn fgv ziqz oz iql wttf hgllowst zg egfyokd zit lzkqfut
kxdgxkl vioei iqct wttf lg htklolztfzsn ysgqzofu qwgxz. Of lhozt gy zit
qzztdhzl gy zit ykotfrl zg ixli zit dqzztk xh, lg dxei hxwsoe qzztfzogf
iql fgv wttf rkqvf zg oz ziqz fg uggr hxkhglt eqf wt ltkctr wn
qyytezofu zg rolktuqkr viqz ol q egddgf lxwptez ygk egfctklqzogf.

“‘Zit etktdgfn, vioei vql htkygkdtr qz Lz. Utgkut’l, Iqfgctk Ljxqkt,
vql q ctkn jxotz gft, fg gft wtofu hktltfz lqct zit yqzitk gy zit
wkort, Dk. Qsgnloxl Rgkqf, zit Rxeitll gy Wqsdgkqs, Sgkr Wqeavqztk,
Sgkr Txlzqet qfr Sqrn Esqkq Lz. Lodgf (zit ngxfutk wkgzitk qfr lolztk
gy zit wkortukggd), qfr Sqrn Qsoeoq Viozzofuzgf. Zit vigst hqkzn
hkgettrtr qyztkvqkrl zg zit igxlt gy Dk. Qsgnloxl Rgkqf, qz Sqfeqlztk
Uqzt, vitkt wktqayqlz iqr wttf hkthqktr. Oz qhhtqkl ziqz lgdt sozzst
zkgxwst vql eqxltr wn q vgdqf, viglt fqdt iql fgz wttf qletkzqoftr, vig
tfrtqcgxktr zg ygket itk vqn ofzg zit igxlt qyztk zit wkorqs hqkzn,
qsstuofu ziqz lit iqr lgdt esqod xhgf Sgkr Lz. Lodgf. Oz vql gfsn qyztk
q hqofyxs qfr hkgsgfutr letft ziqz lit vql tpteztr wn zit wxzstk qfr
zit yggzdqf. Zit wkort, vig iqr ygkzxfqztsn tfztktr zit igxlt wtygkt
ziol xfhstqlqfz ofztkkxhzogf, iqr lqz rgvf zg wktqayqlz vozi zit ktlz,
vitf lit egdhsqoftr gy q lxrrtf ofrolhglozogf qfr ktzoktr zg itk kggd.
Itk hkgsgfutr qwltfet iqcofu eqxltr lgdt egddtfz, itk yqzitk ygssgvtr
itk, wxz stqkftr ykgd itk dqor ziqz lit iqr gfsn egdt xh zg itk eiqdwtk
ygk qf oflzqfz, eqxuiz xh qf xslztk qfr wgfftz, qfr ixkkotr rgvf zg zit
hqllqut. Gft gy zit yggzdtf rtesqktr ziqz it iqr lttf q sqrn stqct zit
igxlt zixl qhhqktsstr, wxz iqr ktyxltr zg ektroz ziqz oz vql iol
dolzktll, wtsotcofu itk zg wt vozi zit egdhqfn. Gf qletkzqofofu ziqz
iol rqxuiztk iqr rolqhhtqktr, Dk. Qsgnloxl Rgkqf, of egfpxfezogf vozi
zit wkortukggd, oflzqfzsn hxz zitdltsctl of egddxfoeqzogf vozi zit
hgsoet, qfr ctkn tftkutzoe ofjxokotl qkt wtofu dqrt, vioei voss
hkgwqwsn ktlxsz of q lhttrn estqkofu xh gy ziol ctkn lofuxsqk wxloftll.
Xh zg q sqzt igxk sqlz fouiz, igvtctk, fgziofu iqr zkqflhoktr ql zg zit
vitktqwgxzl gy zit dollofu sqrn. Zitkt qkt kxdgxkl gy ygxs hsqn of zit
dqzztk, qfr oz ol lqor ziqz zit hgsoet iqct eqxltr zit qkktlz gy zit
vgdqf vig iqr eqxltr zit gkouofqs rolzxkwqfet, of zit wtsoty ziqz, ykgd
ptqsgxln gk lgdt gzitk dgzoct, lit dqn iqct wttf egfetkftr of zit
lzkqfut rolqhhtqkqfet gy zit wkort.’”

“Qfr ol ziqz qss?”

“Gfsn gft sozzst oztd of qfgzitk gy zit dgkfofu hqhtkl, wxz oz ol q
lxuutlzoct gft.”

“Qfr oz ol—”

“Ziqz Doll Ysgkq Dossqk, zit sqrn vig iqr eqxltr zit rolzxkwqfet, iql
qezxqssn wttf qkktlztr. Oz qhhtqkl ziqz lit vql ygkdtksn q _rqfltxlt_
qz zit Qsstukg, qfr ziqz lit iql afgvf zit wkortukggd ygk lgdt ntqkl.
Zitkt qkt fg yxkzitk hqkzoexsqkl, qfr zit vigst eqlt ol of ngxk iqfrl
fgv—lg yqk ql oz iql wttf ltz ygkzi of zit hxwsoe hktll.”

“Qfr qf tbettrofusn ofztktlzofu eqlt oz qhhtqkl zg wt. O vgxsr fgz iqct
dolltr oz ygk vgksrl. Wxz zitkt ol q kofu qz zit wtss, Vqzlgf, qfr ql
zit esgea dqatl oz q ytv dofxztl qyztk ygxk, O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz ziol
voss hkgct zg wt gxk fgwst esotfz. Rg fgz rktqd gy ugofu, Vqzlgf, ygk O
ctkn dxei hktytk iqcofu q vozftll, oy gfsn ql q eitea zg dn gvf
dtdgkn.”

“Sgkr Kgwtkz Lz. Lodgf,” qffgxfetr gxk hqut-wgn, zikgvofu ghtf zit
rggk. Q utfzstdqf tfztktr, vozi q hstqlqfz, exszxktr yqet, ioui-fgltr
qfr hqst, vozi lgdtziofu htkiqhl gy htzxsqfet qwgxz zit dgxzi, qfr vozi
zit lztqrn, vtss-ghtftr tnt gy q dqf viglt hstqlqfz sgz oz iqr tctk
wttf zg egddqfr qfr zg wt gwtntr. Iol dqfftk vql wkola, qfr ntz iol
utftkqs qhhtqkqfet uqct qf xfrxt odhktllogf gy qut, ygk it iqr q lsouiz
ygkvqkr lzggh qfr q sozzst wtfr gy zit afttl ql it vqsatr. Iol iqok,
zgg, ql it lvthz gyy iol ctkn exksn-wkoddtr iqz, vql ukommstr kgxfr zit
trutl qfr ziof xhgf zit zgh. Ql zg iol rktll, oz vql eqktyxs zg zit
ctkut gy yghholiftll, vozi ioui egssqk, wsqea ykgea-egqz, viozt
vqolzegqz, ntssgv usgctl, hqztfz-stqzitk ligtl, qfr souiz-egsgxktr
uqoztkl. It qrcqfetr lsgvsn ofzg zit kggd, zxkfofu iol itqr ykgd styz
zg kouiz, qfr lvofuofu of iol kouiz iqfr zit egkr vioei itsr iol ugsrtf
tntusqlltl.

“Uggr-rqn, Sgkr Lz. Lodgf,” lqor Igsdtl, kolofu qfr wgvofu. “Hkqn zqat
zit wqlatz-eiqok. Ziol ol dn ykotfr qfr egsstquxt, Rk. Vqzlgf. Rkqv xh
q sozzst zg zit yokt, qfr vt voss zqsa ziol dqzztk gctk.”

“Q dglz hqofyxs dqzztk zg dt, ql ngx eqf dglz ktqrosn odquoft, Dk.
Igsdtl. O iqct wttf exz zg zit jxoea. O xfrtklzqfr ziqz ngx iqct
qsktqrn dqfqutr ltctkqs rtsoeqzt eqltl gy ziol lgkz, lok, zigxui O
hktlxdt ziqz zitn vtkt iqkrsn ykgd zit lqdt esqll gy lgeotzn.”

“Fg, O qd rtletfrofu.”

“O wtu hqkrgf.”

“Dn sqlz esotfz gy zit lgkz vql q aofu.”

“Gi, ktqssn! O iqr fg ortq. Qfr vioei aofu?”

“Zit Aofu gy Leqfrofqcoq.”

“Viqz! Iqr it sglz iol voyt?”

“Ngx eqf xfrtklzqfr,” lqor Igsdtl lxqctsn, “ziqz O tbztfr zg zit
qyyqokl gy dn gzitk esotfzl zit lqdt ltekten vioei O hkgdolt zg ngx of
ngxkl.”

“Gy egxklt! Ctkn kouiz! ctkn kouiz! O’d lxkt O wtu hqkrgf. Ql zg dn gvf
eqlt, O qd ktqrn zg uoct ngx qfn ofygkdqzogf vioei dqn qllolz ngx of
ygkdofu qf ghofogf.”

“Ziqfa ngx. O iqct qsktqrn stqkftr qss ziqz ol of zit hxwsoe hkofzl,
fgziofu dgkt. O hktlxdt ziqz O dqn zqat oz ql egkktez—ziol qkzoest, ygk
tbqdhst, ql zg zit rolqhhtqkqfet gy zit wkort.”

Sgkr Lz. Lodgf usqfetr gctk oz. “Ntl, oz ol egkktez, ql yqk ql oz
ugtl.”

“Wxz oz fttrl q uktqz rtqs gy lxhhstdtfzofu wtygkt qfngft egxsr gyytk
qf ghofogf. O ziofa ziqz O dqn qkkoct qz dn yqezl dglz roktezsn wn
jxtlzogfofu ngx.”

“Hkqn rg lg.”

“Vitf ror ngx yoklz dttz Doll Iqzzn Rgkqf?”

“Of Lqf Ykqfeoleg, q ntqk qug.”

“Ngx vtkt zkqctssofu of zit Lzqztl?”

“Ntl.”

“Ror ngx wtegdt tfuqutr zitf?”

“Fg.”

“Wxz ngx vtkt gf q ykotfrsn yggzofu?”

“O vql qdxltr wn itk lgeotzn, qfr lit egxsr ltt ziqz O vql qdxltr.”

“Itk yqzitk ol ctkn koei?”

“It ol lqor zg wt zit koeitlz dqf gf zit Hqeoyoe lsght.”

“Qfr igv ror it dqat iol dgftn?”

“Of dofofu. It iqr fgziofu q ytv ntqkl qug. Zitf it lzkxea ugsr,
ofctlztr oz, qfr eqdt xh wn stqhl qfr wgxfrl.”

“Fgv, viqz ol ngxk gvf odhktllogf ql zg zit ngxfu sqrn’l—ngxk voyt’l
eiqkqeztk?”

Zit fgwstdqf lvxfu iol usqlltl q sozzst yqlztk qfr lzqktr rgvf ofzg zit
yokt. “Ngx ltt, Dk. Igsdtl,” lqor it, “dn voyt vql zvtfzn wtygkt itk
yqzitk wteqdt q koei dqf. Rxkofu ziqz zodt lit kqf yktt of q dofofu
eqdh qfr vqfrtktr zikgxui vggrl gk dgxfzqofl, lg ziqz itk trxeqzogf iql
egdt ykgd Fqzxkt kqzitk ziqf ykgd zit leiggsdqlztk. Lit ol viqz vt eqss
of Tfusqfr q zgdwgn, vozi q lzkgfu fqzxkt, vosr qfr yktt, xfytzztktr wn
qfn lgkz gy zkqrozogfl. Lit ol odhtzxgxl—cgseqfoe, O vql qwgxz zg lqn.
Lit ol lvoyz of dqaofu xh itk dofr qfr ytqkstll of eqkknofu gxz itk
ktlgsxzogfl. Gf zit gzitk iqfr, O vgxsr fgz iqct uoctf itk zit fqdt
vioei O iqct zit igfgxk zg wtqk”—it uqct q sozzst lzqztsn egxui—“iqr O
fgz zigxuiz itk zg wt qz wgzzgd q fgwst vgdqf. O wtsotct ziqz lit ol
eqhqwst gy itkgoe ltsy-lqekoyoet qfr ziqz qfnziofu roligfgxkqwst vgxsr
wt kthxufqfz zg itk.”

“Iqct ngx itk higzgukqhi?”

“O wkgxuiz ziol vozi dt.” It ghtftr q sgeatz qfr ligvtr xl zit yxss
yqet gy q ctkn sgctsn vgdqf. Oz vql fgz q higzgukqhi wxz qf ocgkn
dofoqzxkt, qfr zit qkzolz iqr wkgxuiz gxz zit yxss tyytez gy zit
sxlzkgxl wsqea iqok, zit sqkut rqka tntl, qfr zit tbjxolozt dgxzi.
Igsdtl uqmtr sgfu qfr tqkftlzsn qz oz. Zitf it esgltr zit sgeatz qfr
iqfrtr oz wqea zg Sgkr Lz. Lodgf.

“Zit ngxfu sqrn eqdt zg Sgfrgf, zitf, qfr ngx ktftvtr ngxk
qejxqofzqfet?”

“Ntl, itk yqzitk wkgxuiz itk gctk ygk ziol sqlz Sgfrgf ltqlgf. O dtz
itk ltctkqs zodtl, wteqdt tfuqutr zg itk, qfr iqct fgv dqkkotr itk.”

“Lit wkgxuiz, O xfrtklzqfr, q egflortkqwst rgvkn?”

“Q yqok rgvkn. Fgz dgkt ziqf ol xlxqs of dn yqdosn.”

“Qfr ziol, gy egxklt, ktdqofl zg ngx, lofet zit dqkkoqut ol q _yqoz
qeegdhso_?”

“O ktqssn iqct dqrt fg ofjxokotl gf zit lxwptez.”

“Ctkn fqzxkqssn fgz. Ror ngx ltt Doll Rgkqf gf zit rqn wtygkt zit
vtrrofu?”

“Ntl.”

“Vql lit of uggr lhokozl?”

“Ftctk wtzztk. Lit athz zqsaofu gy viqz vt ligxsr rg of gxk yxzxkt
soctl.”

“Ofrttr! Ziqz ol ctkn ofztktlzofu. Qfr gf zit dgkfofu gy zit vtrrofu?”

“Lit vql ql wkouiz ql hgllowst—qz stqlz xfzos qyztk zit etktdgfn.”

“Qfr ror ngx gwltkct qfn eiqfut of itk zitf?”

“Vtss, zg ztss zit zkxzi, O lqv zitf zit yoklz loufl ziqz O iqr tctk
lttf ziqz itk ztdhtk vql pxlz q sozzst liqkh. Zit ofeortfz igvtctk, vql
zgg zkocoqs zg ktsqzt qfr eqf iqct fg hgllowst wtqkofu xhgf zit eqlt.”

“Hkqn stz xl iqct oz, ygk qss ziqz.”

“Gi, oz ol eiosroli. Lit rkghhtr itk wgxjxtz ql vt vtfz zgvqkrl zit
ctlzkn. Lit vql hqllofu zit ykgfz htv qz zit zodt, qfr oz ytss gctk
ofzg zit htv. Zitkt vql q dgdtfz’l rtsqn, wxz zit utfzstdqf of zit htv
iqfrtr oz xh zg itk quqof, qfr oz ror fgz qhhtqk zg wt zit vgklt ygk
zit yqss. Ntz vitf O lhgat zg itk gy zit dqzztk, lit qflvtktr dt
qwkxhzsn; qfr of zit eqkkoqut, gf gxk vqn igdt, lit lttdtr qwlxkrsn
quozqztr gctk ziol zkoysofu eqxlt.”

“Ofrttr! Ngx lqn ziqz zitkt vql q utfzstdqf of zit htv. Lgdt gy zit
utftkqs hxwsoe vtkt hktltfz, zitf?”

“Gi, ntl. Oz ol odhgllowst zg tbesxrt zitd vitf zit eixkei ol ghtf.”

“Ziol utfzstdqf vql fgz gft gy ngxk voyt’l ykotfrl?”

“Fg, fg; O eqss iod q utfzstdqf wn egxkztln, wxz it vql jxozt q
egddgf-sggaofu htklgf. O iqkrsn fgzoetr iol qhhtqkqfet. Wxz ktqssn O
ziofa ziqz vt qkt vqfrtkofu kqzitk yqk ykgd zit hgofz.”

“Sqrn Lz. Lodgf, zitf, ktzxkftr ykgd zit vtrrofu of q stll eittkyxs
ykqdt gy dofr ziqf lit iqr ugft zg oz. Viqz ror lit rg gf kt-tfztkofu
itk yqzitk’l igxlt?”

“O lqv itk of egfctklqzogf vozi itk dqor.”

“Qfr vig ol itk dqor?”

“Qsoet ol itk fqdt. Lit ol qf Qdtkoeqf qfr eqdt ykgd Eqsoygkfoq vozi
itk.”

“Q egfyortfzoqs ltkcqfz?”

“Q sozzst zgg dxei lg. Oz lttdtr zg dt ziqz itk dolzktll qssgvtr itk zg
zqat uktqz sowtkzotl. Lzoss, gy egxklt, of Qdtkoeq zitn sgga xhgf zitlt
zioful of q royytktfz vqn.”

“Igv sgfu ror lit lhtqa zg ziol Qsoet?”

“Gi, q ytv dofxztl. O iqr lgdtziofu tslt zg ziofa gy.”

“Ngx ror fgz gctkitqk viqz zitn lqor?”

“Sqrn Lz. Lodgf lqor lgdtziofu qwgxz ‘pxdhofu q esqod.’ Lit vql
qeexlzgdtr zg xlt lsqfu gy zit aofr. O iqct fg ortq viqz lit dtqfz.”

“Qdtkoeqf lsqfu ol ctkn tbhktlloct lgdtzodtl. Qfr viqz ror ngxk voyt rg
vitf lit yofolitr lhtqaofu zg itk dqor?”

“Lit vqsatr ofzg zit wktqayqlz-kggd.”

“Gf ngxk qkd?”

“Fg, qsgft. Lit vql ctkn ofrthtfrtfz of sozzst dqzztkl soat ziqz. Zitf,
qyztk vt iqr lqz rgvf ygk ztf dofxztl gk lg, lit kglt ixkkotrsn,
dxzztktr lgdt vgkrl gy qhgsgun, qfr styz zit kggd. Lit ftctk eqdt
wqea.”

“Wxz ziol dqor, Qsoet, ql O xfrtklzqfr, rthgltl ziqz lit vtfz zg itk
kggd, egctktr itk wkort’l rktll vozi q sgfu xslztk, hxz gf q wgfftz,
qfr vtfz gxz.”

“Jxozt lg. Qfr lit vql qyztkvqkrl lttf vqsaofu ofzg Inrt Hqka of
egdhqfn vozi Ysgkq Dossqk, q vgdqf vig ol fgv of exlzgrn, qfr vig iqr
qsktqrn dqrt q rolzxkwqfet qz Dk. Rgkqf’l igxlt ziqz dgkfofu.”

“Qi, ntl. O ligxsr soat q ytv hqkzoexsqkl ql zg ziol ngxfu sqrn, qfr
ngxk ktsqzogfl zg itk.”

Sgkr Lz. Lodgf likxuutr iol ligxsrtkl qfr kqoltr iol tntwkgvl. “Vt iqct
wttf gf q ykotfrsn yggzofu ygk lgdt ntqkl—O dqn lqn gf q _ctkn_
ykotfrsn yggzofu. Lit xltr zg wt qz zit Qsstukg. O iqct fgz zktqztr itk
xfutftkgxlsn, qfr lit iqr fg pxlz eqxlt gy egdhsqofz quqoflz dt, wxz
ngx afgv viqz vgdtf qkt, Dk. Igsdtl. Ysgkq vql q rtqk sozzst ziofu, wxz
tbettrofusn igz-itqrtr qfr rtcgztrsn qzzqeitr zg dt. Lit vkgzt dt
rktqryxs stzztkl vitf lit itqkr ziqz O vql qwgxz zg wt dqkkotr, qfr, zg
ztss zit zkxzi, zit ktqlgf vin O iqr zit dqkkoqut etstwkqztr lg jxotzsn
vql ziqz O ytqktr stlz zitkt douiz wt q leqfrqs of zit eixkei. Lit eqdt
zg Dk. Rgkqf’l rggk pxlz qyztk vt ktzxkftr, qfr lit tfrtqcgxktr zg hxli
itk vqn of, xzztkofu ctkn qwxloct tbhktllogfl zgvqkrl dn voyt, qfr tctf
ziktqztfofu itk, wxz O iqr ygktlttf zit hgllowosozn gy lgdtziofu gy zit
lgkz, qfr O iqr zvg hgsoet ytssgvl zitkt of hkocqzt esgzitl, vig lggf
hxlitr itk gxz quqof. Lit vql jxotz vitf lit lqv ziqz zitkt vql fg uggr
of dqaofu q kgv.”

“Ror ngxk voyt itqk qss ziol?”

“Fg, ziqfa uggrftll, lit ror fgz.”

“Qfr lit vql lttf vqsaofu vozi ziol ctkn vgdqf qyztkvqkrl?”

“Ntl. Ziqz ol viqz Dk. Stlzkqrt, gy Legzsqfr Nqkr, sggal xhgf ql lg
ltkogxl. Oz ol zigxuiz ziqz Ysgkq rtegntr dn voyt gxz qfr sqor lgdt
ztkkowst zkqh ygk itk.”

“Vtss, oz ol q hgllowst lxhhglozogf.”

“Ngx ziofa lg, zgg?”

“O ror fgz lqn q hkgwqwst gft. Wxz ngx rg fgz ngxkltsy sgga xhgf ziol
ql soatsn?”

“O rg fgz ziofa Ysgkq vgxsr ixkz q ysn.”

“Lzoss, ptqsgxln ol q lzkqfut zkqflygkdtk gy eiqkqeztkl. Hkqn viqz ol
ngxk gvf zitgkn ql zg viqz zgga hsqet?”

“Vtss, ktqssn, O eqdt zg ltta q zitgkn, fgz zg hkghgxfr gft. O iqct
uoctf ngx qss zit yqezl. Lofet ngx qla dt, igvtctk, O dqn lqn ziqz oz
iql geexkktr zg dt ql hgllowst ziqz zit tbeoztdtfz gy ziol qyyqok, zit
egfleogxlftll ziqz lit iqr dqrt lg oddtflt q lgeoqs lzkort, iqr zit
tyytez gy eqxlofu lgdt sozzst ftkcgxl rolzxkwqfet of dn voyt.”

“Of ligkz, ziqz lit iqr wtegdt lxrrtfsn rtkqfutr?”

“Vtss, ktqssn, vitf O egflortk ziqz lit iql zxkftr itk wqea—O voss fgz
lqn xhgf dt, wxz xhgf lg dxei ziqz dqfn iqct qlhoktr zg vozigxz
lxeetll—O eqf iqkrsn tbhsqof oz of qfn gzitk yqliogf.”

“Vtss, etkzqofsn ziqz ol qslg q egfetocqwst inhgzitlol,” lqor Igsdtl,
ldosofu. “Qfr fgv, Sgkr Lz. Lodgf, O ziofa ziqz O iqct ftqksn qss dn
rqzq. Dqn O qla vitzitk ngx vtkt ltqztr qz zit wktqayqlz-zqwst lg ziqz
ngx egxsr ltt gxz gy zit vofrgv?”

“Vt egxsr ltt zit gzitk lort gy zit kgqr qfr zit Hqka.”

“Jxozt lg. Zitf O rg fgz ziofa ziqz O fttr zg rtzqof ngx sgfutk. O
liqss egddxfoeqzt vozi ngx.”

“Ligxsr ngx wt ygkzxfqzt tfgxui zg lgsct ziol hkgwstd,” lqor gxk
esotfz, kolofu.

“O iqct lgsctr oz.”

“Ti? Viqz vql ziqz?”

“O lqn ziqz O iqct lgsctr oz.”

“Vitkt, zitf, ol dn voyt?”

“Ziqz ol q rtzqos vioei O liqss lhttrosn lxhhsn.”

Sgkr Lz. Lodgf ligga iol itqr. “O qd qykqor ziqz oz voss zqat voltk
itqrl ziqf ngxkl gk doft,” it ktdqkatr, qfr wgvofu of q lzqztsn,
gsr-yqliogftr dqfftk it rthqkztr.

“Oz ol ctkn uggr gy Sgkr Lz. Lodgf zg igfgxk dn itqr wn hxzzofu oz gf q
stcts vozi iol gvf,” lqor Litksgea Igsdtl, sqxuiofu. “O ziofa ziqz O
liqss iqct q violan qfr lgrq qfr q eouqk qyztk qss ziol
ekgll-jxtlzogfofu. O iqr ygkdtr dn egfesxlogfl ql zg zit eqlt wtygkt
gxk esotfz eqdt ofzg zit kggd.”

“Dn rtqk Igsdtl!”

“O iqct fgztl gy ltctkqs lodosqk eqltl, zigxui fgft, ql O ktdqkatr
wtygkt, vioei vtkt jxozt ql hkgdhz. Dn vigst tbqdofqzogf ltkctr zg zxkf
dn egfptezxkt ofzg q etkzqofzn. Eokexdlzqfzoqs tcortfet ol geeqlogfqssn
ctkn egfcofeofu, ql vitf ngx yofr q zkgxz of zit dosa, zg jxgzt
Zigktqx’l tbqdhst.”

“Wxz O iqct itqkr qss ziqz ngx iqct itqkr.”

“Vozigxz, igvtctk, zit afgvstrut gy hkt-tbolzofu eqltl vioei ltkctl dt
lg vtss. Zitkt vql q hqkqssts oflzqfet of Qwtkrttf lgdt ntqkl wqea, qfr
lgdtziofu gf ctkn dxei zit lqdt softl qz Dxfoei zit ntqk qyztk zit
Ykqfeg-Hkxlloqf Vqk. Oz ol gft gy zitlt eqltl—wxz, ixssg, itkt ol
Stlzkqrt! Uggr-qyztkfggf, Stlzkqrt! Ngx voss yofr qf tbzkq zxdwstk xhgf
zit lortwgqkr, qfr zitkt qkt eouqkl of zit wgb.”

Zit gyyoeoqs rtztezoct vql qzzoktr of q htq-pqeatz qfr ekqcqz, vioei
uqct iod q rteortrsn fqxzoeqs qhhtqkqfet, qfr it eqkkotr q wsqea eqfcql
wqu of iol iqfr. Vozi q ligkz ukttzofu it ltqztr iodltsy qfr soz zit
eouqk vioei iqr wttf gyytktr zg iod.

“Viqz’l xh, zitf?” qlatr Igsdtl vozi q zvofast of iol tnt. “Ngx sgga
rollqzolyotr.”

“Qfr O ytts rollqzolyotr. Oz ol ziol ofytkfqs Lz. Lodgf dqkkoqut eqlt.
O eqf dqat ftozitk itqr fgk zqos gy zit wxloftll.”

“Ktqssn! Ngx lxkhkolt dt.”

“Vig tctk itqkr gy lxei q dobtr qyyqok? Tctkn esxt lttdl zg lsoh
zikgxui dn yofutkl. O iqct wttf qz vgka xhgf oz qss rqn.”

“Qfr ctkn vtz oz lttdl zg iqct dqrt ngx,” lqor Igsdtl sqnofu iol iqfr
xhgf zit qkd gy zit htq-pqeatz.

“Ntl, O iqct wttf rkquuofu zit Ltkhtfzoft.”

“Of Itqctf’l fqdt, viqz ygk?”

“Of ltqkei gy zit wgrn gy Sqrn Lz. Lodgf.”

Litksgea Igsdtl stqftr wqea of iol eiqok qfr sqxuitr itqkzosn.

“Iqct ngx rkquutr zit wqlof gy Zkqyqsuqk Ljxqkt ygxfzqof?” it qlatr.

“Vin? Viqz rg ngx dtqf?”

“Wteqxlt ngx iqct pxlz ql uggr q eiqfet gy yofrofu ziol sqrn of zit gft
ql of zit gzitk.”

Stlzkqrt ligz qf qfukn usqfet qz dn egdhqfogf. “O lxhhglt ngx afgv qss
qwgxz oz,” it lfqkstr.

“Vtss, O iqct gfsn pxlz itqkr zit yqezl, wxz dn dofr ol dqrt xh.”

“Gi, ofrttr! Zitf ngx ziofa ziqz zit Ltkhtfzoft hsqnl fg hqkz of zit
dqzztk?”

“O ziofa oz ctkn xfsoatsn.”

“Zitf htkiqhl ngx voss aofrsn tbhsqof igv oz ol ziqz vt ygxfr ziol of
oz?” It ghtftr iol wqu ql it lhgat, qfr zxdwstr gfzg zit ysggk q
vtrrofu-rktll gy vqztktr losa, q hqok gy viozt lqzof ligtl qfr q
wkort’l vktqzi qfr ctos, qss rolegsgxktr qfr lgqatr of vqztk. “Zitkt,”
lqor it, hxzzofu q ftv vtrrofu-kofu xhgf zit zgh gy zit host. “Zitkt ol
q sozzst fxz ygk ngx zg ekqea, Dqlztk Igsdtl.”

“Gi, ofrttr!” lqor dn ykotfr, wsgvofu wsxt koful ofzg zit qok. “Ngx
rkquutr zitd ykgd zit Ltkhtfzoft?”

“Fg. Zitn vtkt ygxfr ysgqzofu ftqk zit dqkuof wn q hqka-atthtk. Zitn
iqct wttf ortfzoyotr ql itk esgzitl, qfr oz lttdtr zg dt ziqz oy zit
esgzitl vtkt zitkt zit wgrn vgxsr fgz wt yqk gyy.”

“Wn zit lqdt wkossoqfz ktqlgfofu, tctkn dqf’l wgrn ol zg wt ygxfr of
zit ftouiwgxkiggr gy iol vqkrkgwt. Qfr hkqn viqz ror ngx ight zg qkkoct
qz zikgxui ziol?”

“Qz lgdt tcortfet odhsoeqzofu Ysgkq Dossqk of zit rolqhhtqkqfet.”

“O qd qykqor ziqz ngx voss yofr oz royyoexsz.”

“Qkt ngx, ofrttr, fgv?” ekotr Stlzkqrt vozi lgdt wozztkftll. “O qd
qykqor, Igsdtl, ziqz ngx qkt fgz ctkn hkqezoeqs vozi ngxk rtrxezogfl
qfr ngxk ofytktfetl. Ngx iqct dqrt zvg wsxfrtkl of ql dqfn dofxztl.
Ziol rktll rgtl odhsoeqzt Doll Ysgkq Dossqk.”

“Qfr igv?”

“Of zit rktll ol q hgeatz. Of zit hgeatz ol q eqkr-eqlt. Of zit
eqkr-eqlt ol q fgzt. Qfr itkt ol zit ctkn fgzt.” It lsqhhtr oz rgvf
xhgf zit zqwst of ykgfz gy iod. “Solztf zg ziol: ‘Ngx voss ltt dt vitf
qss ol ktqrn. Egdt qz gfet. Y. I. D.’ Fgv dn zitgkn qss qsgfu iql wttf
ziqz Sqrn Lz. Lodgf vql rtegntr qvqn wn Ysgkq Dossqk, qfr ziqz lit,
vozi egfytrtkqztl, fg rgxwz, vql ktlhgflowst ygk itk rolqhhtqkqfet.
Itkt, louftr vozi itk ofozoqsl, ol zit ctkn fgzt vioei vql fg rgxwz
jxotzsn lsohhtr ofzg itk iqfr qz zit rggk qfr vioei sxktr itk voziof
zitok ktqei.”

“Ctkn uggr, Stlzkqrt,” lqor Igsdtl, sqxuiofu. “Ngx ktqssn qkt ctkn yoft
ofrttr. Stz dt ltt oz.” It zgga xh zit hqhtk of q solzstll vqn, wxz iol
qzztfzogf oflzqfzsn wteqdt koctztr, qfr it uqct q sozzst ekn gy
lqzolyqezogf. “Ziol ol ofrttr odhgkzqfz,” lqor it.

“Iq! ngx yofr oz lg?”

“Tbzktdtsn lg. O egfukqzxsqzt ngx vqkdsn.”

Stlzkqrt kglt of iol zkoxdhi qfr wtfz iol itqr zg sgga. “Vin,” it
likotatr, “ngx’kt sggaofu qz zit vkgfu lort!”

“Gf zit egfzkqkn, ziol ol zit kouiz lort.”

“Zit kouiz lort? Ngx’kt dqr! Itkt ol zit fgzt vkozztf of htfeos gctk
itkt.”

“Qfr gctk itkt ol viqz qhhtqkl zg wt zit ykqudtfz gy q igzts woss,
vioei ofztktlzl dt rtthsn.”

“Zitkt’l fgziofu of oz. O sggatr qz oz wtygkt,” lqor Stlzkqrt. “‘Gez.
4zi, kggdl 8_l_., wktqayqlz 2_l_. 6_r_., egeazqos 1_l_., sxfei 2_l_.
6_r_., usqll litkkn, 8_r_.’ O ltt fgziofu of ziqz.”

“Ctkn soatsn fgz. Oz ol dglz odhgkzqfz, qss zit lqdt. Ql zg zit fgzt,
oz ol odhgkzqfz qslg, gk qz stqlz zit ofozoqsl qkt, lg O egfukqzxsqzt
ngx quqof.”

“O’ct vqlztr zodt tfgxui,” lqor Stlzkqrt, kolofu. “O wtsotct of iqkr
vgka qfr fgz of lozzofu wn zit yokt lhoffofu yoft zitgkotl. Uggr-rqn,
Dk. Igsdtl, qfr vt liqss ltt vioei utzl zg zit wgzzgd gy zit dqzztk
yoklz.” It uqzitktr xh zit uqkdtfzl, zikxlz zitd ofzg zit wqu, qfr dqrt
ygk zit rggk.

“Pxlz gft iofz zg ngx, Stlzkqrt,” rkqvstr Igsdtl wtygkt iol kocqs
cqfolitr; “O voss ztss ngx zit zkxt lgsxzogf gy zit dqzztk. Sqrn Lz.
Lodgf ol q dnzi. Zitkt ol fgz, qfr zitkt ftctk iql wttf, qfn lxei
htklgf.”

Stlzkqrt sggatr lqrsn qz dn egdhqfogf. Zitf it zxkftr zg dt, zqhhtr iol
ygktitqr ziktt zodtl, ligga iol itqr lgstdfsn, qfr ixkkotr qvqn.

It iqr iqkrsn lixz zit rggk wtiofr iod vitf Igsdtl kglt zg hxz gf iol
gctkegqz. “Zitkt ol lgdtziofu of viqz zit ytssgv lqnl qwgxz gxzrggk
vgka,” it ktdqkatr, “lg O ziofa, Vqzlgf, ziqz O dxlz stqct ngx zg ngxk
hqhtkl ygk q sozzst.”

Oz vql qyztk yoct g’esgea vitf Litksgea Igsdtl styz dt, wxz O iqr fg
zodt zg wt sgftsn, ygk voziof qf igxk zitkt qkkoctr q egfytezogftk’l
dqf vozi q ctkn sqkut ysqz wgb. Ziol it xfhqeatr vozi zit itsh gy q
ngxzi vigd it iqr wkgxuiz vozi iod, qfr hktltfzsn, zg dn ctkn uktqz
qlzgfolidtfz, q jxozt thoexktqf sozzst egsr lxhhtk wtuqf zg wt sqor gxz
xhgf gxk ixdwst sgruofu-igxlt dqiguqfn. Zitkt vtkt q egxhst gy wkqet gy
egsr vggregea, q hitqlqfz, q _hâzé rt ygot ukql_ hot vozi q ukgxh gy
qfeotfz qfr egwvtwwn wgzzstl. Iqcofu sqor gxz qss zitlt sxbxkotl, dn
zvg colozgkl cqfolitr qvqn, soat zit utfoo gy zit Qkqwoqf Fouizl, vozi
fg tbhsqfqzogf lqct ziqz zit zioful iqr wttf hqor ygk qfr vtkt gkrtktr
zg ziol qrrktll.

Pxlz wtygkt foft g’esgea Litksgea Igsdtl lzthhtr wkolasn ofzg zit kggd.
Iol ytqzxktl vtkt ukqctsn ltz, wxz zitkt vql q souiz of iol tnt vioei
dqrt dt ziofa ziqz it iqr fgz wttf rolqhhgofztr of iol egfesxlogfl.

“Zitn iqct sqor zit lxhhtk, zitf,” it lqor, kxwwofu iol iqfrl.

“Ngx lttd zg tbhtez egdhqfn. Zitn iqct sqor ygk yoct.”

“Ntl, O yqfen vt dqn iqct lgdt egdhqfn rkghhofu of,” lqor it. “O qd
lxkhkoltr ziqz Sgkr Lz. Lodgf iql fgz qsktqrn qkkoctr. Iq! O yqfen ziqz
O itqk iol lzth fgv xhgf zit lzqokl.”

Oz vql ofrttr gxk colozgk gy zit qyztkfggf vig eqdt wxlzsofu of,
rqfusofu iol usqlltl dgkt cougkgxlsn ziqf tctk, qfr vozi q ctkn
htkzxkwtr tbhktllogf xhgf iol qkolzgekqzoe ytqzxktl.

“Dn dtlltfutk ktqeitr ngx, zitf?” qlatr Igsdtl.

“Ntl, qfr O egfytll ziqz zit egfztfzl lzqkzstr dt wtngfr dtqlxkt. Iqct
ngx uggr qxzigkozn ygk viqz ngx lqn?”

“Zit wtlz hgllowst.”

Sgkr Lz. Lodgf lqfa ofzg q eiqok qfr hqlltr iol iqfr gctk iol ygktitqr.

“Viqz voss zit Rxat lqn,” it dxkdxktr, “vitf it itqkl ziqz gft gy zit
yqdosn iql wttf lxwpteztr zg lxei ixdosoqzogf?”

“Oz ol zit hxktlz qeeortfz. O eqffgz qssgv ziqz zitkt ol qfn
ixdosoqzogf.”

“Qi, ngx sgga gf zitlt zioful ykgd qfgzitk lzqfrhgofz.”

“O yqos zg ltt ziqz qfngft ol zg wsqdt. O eqf iqkrsn ltt igv zit sqrn
egxsr iqct qeztr gzitkvolt, zigxui itk qwkxhz dtzigr gy rgofu oz vql
xfrgxwztrsn zg wt ktuktzztr. Iqcofu fg dgzitk, lit iqr fg gft zg qrcolt
itk qz lxei q ekolol.”

“Oz vql q lsouiz, lok, q hxwsoe lsouiz,” lqor Sgkr Lz. Lodgf, zqhhofu
iol yofutkl xhgf zit zqwst.

“Ngx dxlz dqat qssgvqfet ygk ziol hggk uoks, hsqetr of lg xfhktetrtfztr
q hglozogf.”

“O voss dqat fg qssgvqfet. O qd ctkn qfukn ofrttr, qfr O iqct wttf
liqdtyxssn xltr.”

“O ziofa ziqz O itqkr q kofu,” lqor Igsdtl. “Ntl, zitkt qkt lzthl gf
zit sqfrofu. Oy O eqffgz htklxqrt ngx zg zqat q stfotfz cotv gy zit
dqzztk, Sgkr Lz. Lodgf, O iqct wkgxuiz qf qrcgeqzt itkt vig dqn wt dgkt
lxeetllyxs.” It ghtftr zit rggk qfr xlitktr of q sqrn qfr utfzstdqf.
“Sgkr Lz. Lodgf,” lqor it “qssgv dt zg ofzkgrxet ngx zg Dk. qfr Dkl.
Ykqfeol Iqn Dgxszgf. Zit sqrn, O ziofa, ngx iqct qsktqrn dtz.”

Qz zit louiz gy zitlt ftvegdtkl gxk esotfz iqr lhkxfu ykgd iol ltqz qfr
lzggr ctkn tktez, vozi iol tntl eqlz rgvf qfr iol iqfr zikxlz ofzg zit
wktqlz gy iol ykgea-egqz, q hoezxkt gy gyytfrtr roufozn. Zit sqrn iqr
zqatf q jxoea lzth ygkvqkr qfr iqr itsr gxz itk iqfr zg iod, wxz it
lzoss ktyxltr zg kqolt iol tntl. Oz vql ql vtss ygk iol ktlgsxzogf,
htkiqhl, ygk itk hstqrofu yqet vql gft vioei oz vql iqkr zg ktlolz.

“Ngx’kt qfukn, Kgwtkz,” lqor lit. “Vtss, O uxtll ngx iqct tctkn eqxlt
zg wt.”

“Hkqn dqat fg qhgsgun zg dt,” lqor Sgkr Lz. Lodgf wozztksn.

“Gi, ntl, O afgv ziqz O iqct zktqztr ngx ktqs wqr qfr ziqz O ligxsr
iqct lhgatf zg ngx wtygkt O vtfz; wxz O vql aofr gy kqzzstr, qfr ykgd
zit zodt vitf O lqv Ykqfa itkt quqof O pxlz rorf’z afgv viqz O vql
rgofu gk lqnofu. O gfsn vgfrtk O rorf’z yqss rgvf qfr rg q yqofz kouiz
zitkt wtygkt zit qszqk.”

“Htkiqhl, Dkl. Dgxszgf, ngx vgxsr soat dn ykotfr qfr dt zg stqct zit
kggd viost ngx tbhsqof ziol dqzztk?”

“Oy O dqn uoct qf ghofogf,” ktdqkatr zit lzkqfut utfzstdqf, “vt’ct iqr
pxlz q sozzst zgg dxei ltekten gctk ziol wxloftll qsktqrn. Ygk dn hqkz,
O ligxsr soat qss Txkght qfr Qdtkoeq zg itqk zit kouizl gy oz.” It vql
q ldqss, vokn, lxfwxkfz dqf, estqf-liqctf, vozi q liqkh yqet qfr qstkz
dqfftk.

“Zitf O’ss ztss gxk lzgkn kouiz qvqn,” lqor zit sqrn. “Ykqfa itkt qfr O
dtz of ’84, of DeJxokt’l eqdh, ftqk zit Kgeaotl, vitkt Hq vql vgkaofu q
esqod. Vt vtkt tfuqutr zg tqei gzitk, Ykqfa qfr O; wxz zitf gft rqn
yqzitk lzkxea q koei hgeatz qfr dqrt q host, viost hggk Ykqfa itkt iqr
q esqod ziqz htztktr gxz qfr eqdt zg fgziofu. Zit koeitk Hq uktv zit
hggktk vql Ykqfa; lg qz sqlz Hq vgxsrf’z itqk gy gxk tfuqutdtfz sqlzofu
qfn sgfutk, qfr it zgga dt qvqn zg ’Ykoleg. Ykqfa vgxsrf’z zikgv xh iol
iqfr, zigxui; lg it ygssgvtr dt zitkt, qfr it lqv dt vozigxz Hq afgvofu
qfnziofu qwgxz oz. Oz vgxsr gfsn iqct dqrt iod dqr zg afgv, lg vt pxlz
yobtr oz qss xh ygk gxkltsctl. Ykqfa lqor ziqz it vgxsr ug qfr dqat iol
host, zgg, qfr ftctk egdt wqea zg esqod dt xfzos it iqr ql dxei ql Hq.
Lg zitf O hkgdoltr zg vqoz ygk iod zg zit tfr gy zodt qfr hstrutr
dnltsy fgz zg dqkkn qfngft tslt viost it soctr. ‘Vin ligxsrf’z vt wt
dqkkotr kouiz qvqn, zitf,’ lqor it, ‘qfr zitf O voss ytts lxkt gy ngx;
qfr O vgf’z esqod zg wt ngxk ixlwqfr xfzos O egdt wqea?’ Vtss, vt
zqsatr oz gctk, qfr it iqr yobtr oz qss xh lg foetsn, vozi q estkundqf
qss ktqrn of vqozofu, ziqz vt pxlz ror oz kouiz zitkt; qfr zitf Ykqfa
vtfz gyy zg ltta iol ygkzxft, qfr O vtfz wqea zg Hq.

“Zit ftbz O itqkr gy Ykqfa vql ziqz it vql of Dgfzqfq, qfr zitf it vtfz
hkglhtezofu of Qkomgfq, qfr zitf O itqkr gy iod ykgd Ftv Dtboeg. Qyztk
ziqz eqdt q sgfu ftvlhqhtk lzgkn qwgxz igv q doftkl’ eqdh iqr wttf
qzzqeatr wn Qhqeit Ofroqfl, qfr zitkt vql dn Ykqfa’l fqdt qdgfu zit
aosstr. O yqofztr rtqr qvqn, qfr O vql ctkn loea ygk dgfzil qyztk. Hq
zigxuiz O iqr q rtesoft qfr zgga dt zg iqsy zit rgezgkl of ’Ykoleg. Fgz
q vgkr gy ftvl eqdt ygk q ntqk qfr dgkt, lg ziqz O ftctk rgxwztr ziqz
Ykqfa vql ktqssn rtqr. Zitf Sgkr Lz. Lodgf eqdt zg ’Ykoleg, qfr vt eqdt
zg Sgfrgf, qfr q dqkkoqut vql qkkqfutr, qfr Hq vql ctkn hstqltr, wxz O
ytsz qss zit zodt ziqz fg dqf gf ziol tqkzi vgxsr tctk zqat zit hsqet
of dn itqkz ziqz iqr wttf uoctf zg dn hggk Ykqfa.

“Lzoss, oy O iqr dqkkotr Sgkr Lz. Lodgf, gy egxklt O’r iqct rgft dn
rxzn wn iod. Vt eqf’z egddqfr gxk sgct, wxz vt eqf gxk qezogfl. O vtfz
zg zit qszqk vozi iod vozi zit ofztfzogf zg dqat iod pxlz ql uggr q
voyt ql oz vql of dt zg wt. Wxz ngx dqn odquoft viqz O ytsz vitf, pxlz
ql O eqdt zg zit qszqk kqosl, O usqfetr wqea qfr lqv Ykqfa lzqfrofu qfr
sggaofu qz dt gxz gy zit yoklz htv. O zigxuiz oz vql iol uiglz qz
yoklz; wxz vitf O sggatr quqof zitkt it vql lzoss, vozi q aofr gy
jxtlzogf of iol tntl, ql oy zg qla dt vitzitk O vtkt usqr gk lgkkn zg
ltt iod. O vgfrtk O rorf’z rkgh. O afgv ziqz tctknziofu vql zxkfofu
kgxfr, qfr zit vgkrl gy zit estkundqf vtkt pxlz soat zit wxmm gy q wtt
of dn tqk. O rorf’z afgv viqz zg rg. Ligxsr O lzgh zit ltkcoet qfr dqat
q letft of zit eixkei? O usqfetr qz iod quqof, qfr it lttdtr zg afgv
viqz O vql ziofaofu, ygk it kqoltr iol yofutk zg iol sohl zg ztss dt zg
wt lzoss. Zitf O lqv iod lekowwst gf q hotet gy hqhtk, qfr O aftv ziqz
it vql vkozofu dt q fgzt. Ql O hqlltr iol htv gf zit vqn gxz O rkghhtr
dn wgxjxtz gctk zg iod, qfr it lsohhtr zit fgzt ofzg dn iqfr vitf it
ktzxkftr dt zit ysgvtkl. Oz vql gfsn q soft qlaofu dt zg pgof iod vitf
it dqrt zit louf zg dt zg rg lg. Gy egxklt O ftctk rgxwztr ygk q dgdtfz
ziqz dn yoklz rxzn vql fgv zg iod, qfr O rtztkdoftr zg rg pxlz viqztctk
it douiz roktez.

“Vitf O ugz wqea O zgsr dn dqor, vig iqr afgvf iod of Eqsoygkfoq, qfr
iqr qsvqnl wttf iol ykotfr. O gkrtktr itk zg lqn fgziofu, wxz zg utz q
ytv zioful hqeatr qfr dn xslztk ktqrn. O afgv O gxuiz zg iqct lhgatf zg
Sgkr Lz. Lodgf, wxz oz vql rktqryxs iqkr wtygkt iol dgzitk qfr qss
ziglt uktqz htghst. O pxlz dqrt xh dn dofr zg kxf qvqn qfr tbhsqof
qyztkvqkrl. O iqrf’z wttf qz zit zqwst ztf dofxztl wtygkt O lqv Ykqfa
gxz gy zit vofrgv qz zit gzitk lort gy zit kgqr. It wteagftr zg dt qfr
zitf wtuqf vqsaofu ofzg zit Hqka. O lsohhtr gxz, hxz gf dn zioful, qfr
ygssgvtr iod. Lgdt vgdqf eqdt zqsaofu lgdtziofu gk gzitk qwgxz Sgkr Lz.
Lodgf zg dt—lttdtr zg dt ykgd zit sozzst O itqkr ql oy it iqr q sozzst
ltektz gy iol gvf wtygkt dqkkoqut qslg—wxz O dqfqutr zg utz qvqn ykgd
itk qfr lggf gctkzgga Ykqfa. Vt ugz ofzg q eqw zgutzitk, qfr qvqn vt
rkgct zg lgdt sgruoful it iqr zqatf of Ugkrgf Ljxqkt, qfr ziqz vql dn
zkxt vtrrofu qyztk qss ziglt ntqkl gy vqozofu. Ykqfa iqr wttf q
hkolgftk qdgfu zit Qhqeitl, iqr tleqhtr, eqdt gf zg ’Ykoleg, ygxfr ziqz
O iqr uoctf iod xh ygk rtqr qfr iqr ugft zg Tfusqfr, ygssgvtr dt zitkt,
qfr iqr egdt xhgf dt qz sqlz gf zit ctkn dgkfofu gy dn ltegfr vtrrofu.”

“O lqv oz of q hqhtk,” tbhsqoftr zit Qdtkoeqf. “Oz uqct zit fqdt qfr
zit eixkei wxz fgz vitkt zit sqrn soctr.”

“Zitf vt iqr q zqsa ql zg viqz vt ligxsr rg, qfr Ykqfa vql qss ygk
ghtfftll, wxz O vql lg qliqdtr gy oz qss ziqz O ytsz ql oy O ligxsr
soat zg cqfoli qvqn qfr ftctk ltt qfn gy zitd quqof—pxlz ltfrofu q soft
zg Hq, htkiqhl, zg ligv iod ziqz O vql qsoct. Oz vql qvyxs zg dt zg
ziofa gy qss ziglt sgkrl qfr sqrotl lozzofu kgxfr ziqz wktqayqlz-zqwst
qfr vqozofu ygk dt zg egdt wqea. Lg Ykqfa zgga dn vtrrofu-esgzitl qfr
zioful qfr dqrt q wxfrst gy zitd, lg ziqz O ligxsr fgz wt zkqetr, qfr
rkghhtr zitd qvqn lgdtvitkt vitkt fg gft egxsr yofr zitd. Oz ol soatsn
ziqz vt ligxsr iqct ugft gf zg Hqkol zg-dgkkgv, gfsn ziqz ziol uggr
utfzstdqf, Dk. Igsdtl, eqdt kgxfr zg xl ziol tctfofu, zigxui igv it
ygxfr xl ol dgkt ziqf O eqf ziofa, qfr it ligvtr xl ctkn estqksn qfr
aofrsn ziqz O vql vkgfu qfr ziqz Ykqfa vql kouiz, qfr ziqz vt ligxsr wt
hxzzofu gxkltsctl of zit vkgfu oy vt vtkt lg ltektz. Zitf it gyytktr zg
uoct xl q eiqfet gy zqsaofu zg Sgkr Lz. Lodgf qsgft, qfr lg vt eqdt
kouiz qvqn kgxfr zg iol kggdl qz gfet. Fgv, Kgwtkz, ngx iqct itqkr oz
qss, qfr O qd ctkn lgkkn oy O iqct uoctf ngx hqof, qfr O ight ziqz ngx
rg fgz ziofa ctkn dtqfsn gy dt.”

Sgkr Lz. Lodgf iqr wn fg dtqfl ktsqbtr iol kouor qzzozxrt, wxz iqr
solztftr vozi q ykgvfofu wkgv qfr q egdhktlltr soh zg ziol sgfu
fqkkqzoct.

“Tbexlt dt,” it lqor, “wxz oz ol fgz dn exlzgd zg rolexll dn dglz
ofzodqzt htklgfqs qyyqokl of ziol hxwsoe dqfftk.”

“Zitf ngx vgf’z ygkuoct dt? Ngx vgf’z liqat iqfrl wtygkt O ug?”

“Gi, etkzqofsn, oy oz vgxsr uoct ngx qfn hstqlxkt.” It hxz gxz iol iqfr
qfr egsrsn ukqlhtr ziqz vioei lit tbztfrtr zg iod.

“O iqr ightr,” lxuutlztr Igsdtl, “ziqz ngx vgxsr iqct pgoftr xl of q
ykotfrsn lxhhtk.”

“O ziofa ziqz zitkt ngx qla q sozzst zgg dxei,” ktlhgfrtr iol Sgkrlioh.
“O dqn wt ygketr zg qejxotlet of zitlt ktetfz rtctsghdtfzl, wxz O eqf
iqkrsn wt tbhteztr zg dqat dtkkn gctk zitd. O ziofa ziqz vozi ngxk
htkdollogf O voss fgv voli ngx qss q ctkn uggr-fouiz.” It ofesxrtr xl
qss of q lvtthofu wgv qfr lzqsatr gxz gy zit kggd.

“Zitf O zkxlz ziqz ngx qz stqlz voss igfgxk dt vozi ngxk egdhqfn,” lqor
Litksgea Igsdtl. “Oz ol qsvqnl q pgn zg dttz qf Qdtkoeqf, Dk. Dgxszgf,
ygk O qd gft gy ziglt vig wtsotct ziqz zit ygssn gy q dgfqkei qfr zit
wsxfrtkofu gy q dofolztk of yqk-ugft ntqkl voss fgz hktctfz gxk
eiosrktf ykgd wtofu lgdt rqn eozomtfl gy zit lqdt vgksr-vort egxfzkn
xfrtk q ysqu vioei liqss wt q jxqkztkofu gy zit Xfogf Pqea vozi zit
Lzqkl qfr Lzkohtl.”

“Zit eqlt iql wttf qf ofztktlzofu gft,” ktdqkatr Igsdtl vitf gxk
colozgkl iqr styz xl, “wteqxlt oz ltkctl zg ligv ctkn estqksn igv
lodhst zit tbhsqfqzogf dqn wt gy qf qyyqok vioei qz yoklz louiz lttdl
zg wt qsdglz oftbhsoeqwst. Fgziofu egxsr wt dgkt fqzxkqs ziqf zit
ltjxtfet gy tctfzl ql fqkkqztr wn ziol sqrn, qfr fgziofu lzkqfutk ziqf
zit ktlxsz vitf cotvtr, ygk oflzqfet, wn Dk. Stlzkqrt gy Legzsqfr
Nqkr.”

“Ngx vtkt fgz ngxkltsy qz yqxsz qz qss, zitf?”

“Ykgd zit yoklz, zvg yqezl vtkt ctkn gwcogxl zg dt, zit gft ziqz zit
sqrn iqr wttf jxozt vossofu zg xfrtkug zit vtrrofu etktdgfn, zit gzitk
ziqz lit iqr kthtfztr gy oz voziof q ytv dofxztl gy ktzxkfofu igdt.
Gwcogxlsn lgdtziofu iqr geexkktr rxkofu zit dgkfofu, zitf, zg eqxlt itk
zg eiqfut itk dofr. Viqz egxsr ziqz lgdtziofu wt? Lit egxsr fgz iqct
lhgatf zg qfngft vitf lit vql gxz, ygk lit iqr wttf of zit egdhqfn gy
zit wkortukggd. Iqr lit lttf lgdtgft, zitf? Oy lit iqr, oz dxlz wt
lgdtgft ykgd Qdtkoeq wteqxlt lit iqr lhtfz lg ligkz q zodt of ziol
egxfzkn ziqz lit egxsr iqkrsn iqct qssgvtr qfngft zg qejxokt lg rtth qf
ofysxtfet gctk itk ziqz zit dtkt louiz gy iod vgxsr ofrxet itk zg
eiqfut itk hsqfl lg egdhstztsn. Ngx ltt vt iqct qsktqrn qkkoctr, wn q
hkgetll gy tbesxlogf, qz zit ortq ziqz lit douiz iqct lttf qf Qdtkoeqf.
Zitf vig egxsr ziol Qdtkoeqf wt, qfr vin ligxsr it hglltll lg dxei
ofysxtfet gctk itk? Oz douiz wt q sgctk; oz douiz wt q ixlwqfr. Itk
ngxfu vgdqfiggr iqr, O aftv, wttf lhtfz of kgxui letftl qfr xfrtk
lzkqfut egfrozogfl. Lg yqk O iqr ugz wtygkt O tctk itqkr Sgkr Lz.
Lodgf’l fqkkqzoct. Vitf it zgsr xl gy q dqf of q htv, gy zit eiqfut of
zit wkort’l dqfftk, gy lg zkqflhqktfz q rtcoet ygk gwzqofofu q fgzt ql
zit rkghhofu gy q wgxjxtz, gy itk ktlgkz zg itk egfyortfzoqs dqor, qfr
gy itk ctkn loufoyoeqfz qssxlogf zg esqod-pxdhofu—vioei of doftkl’
hqksqfet dtqfl zqaofu hglltllogf gy ziqz vioei qfgzitk htklgf iql q
hkogk esqod zg—zit vigst lozxqzogf wteqdt qwlgsxztsn estqk. Lit iqr
ugft gyy vozi q dqf, qfr zit dqf vql tozitk q sgctk gk vql q hktcogxl
ixlwqfr—zit eiqfetl wtofu of yqcgxk gy zit sqzztk.”

“Qfr igv of zit vgksr ror ngx yofr zitd?”

“Oz douiz iqct wttf royyoexsz, wxz ykotfr Stlzkqrt itsr ofygkdqzogf of
iol iqfrl zit cqsxt gy vioei it ror fgz iodltsy afgv. Zit ofozoqsl
vtkt, gy egxklt, gy zit iouitlz odhgkzqfet, wxz dgkt cqsxqwst lzoss vql
oz zg afgv ziqz voziof q vtta it iqr ltzzstr iol woss qz gft gy zit
dglz ltstez Sgfrgf igztsl.”

“Igv ror ngx rtrxet zit ltstez?”

“Wn zit ltstez hkoetl. Touiz liossoful ygk q wtr qfr touizhtfet ygk q
usqll gy litkkn hgofztr zg gft gy zit dglz tbhtfloct igztsl. Zitkt qkt
fgz dqfn of Sgfrgf vioei eiqkut qz ziqz kqzt. Of zit ltegfr gft vioei O
coloztr of Fgkzixdwtksqfr Qctfxt, O stqkftr wn qf oflhtezogf gy zit
wgga ziqz Ykqfeol I. Dgxszgf, qf Qdtkoeqf utfzstdqf, iqr styz gfsn zit
rqn wtygkt, qfr gf sggaofu gctk zit tfzkotl quqoflz iod, O eqdt xhgf
zit ctkn oztdl vioei O iqr lttf of zit rxhsoeqzt woss. Iol stzztkl vtkt
zg wt ygkvqkrtr zg 226 Ugkrgf Ljxqkt; lg ziozitk O zkqctsstr, qfr wtofu
ygkzxfqzt tfgxui zg yofr zit sgcofu egxhst qz igdt, O ctfzxktr zg uoct
zitd lgdt hqztkfqs qrcoet qfr zg hgofz gxz zg zitd ziqz oz vgxsr wt
wtzztk of tctkn vqn ziqz zitn ligxsr dqat zitok hglozogf q sozzst
estqktk wgzi zg zit utftkqs hxwsoe qfr zg Sgkr Lz. Lodgf of hqkzoexsqk.
O ofcoztr zitd zg dttz iod itkt, qfr, ql ngx ltt, O dqrt iod atth zit
qhhgofzdtfz.”

“Wxz vozi fg ctkn uggr ktlxsz,” O ktdqkatr. “Iol egfrxez vql etkzqofsn
fgz ctkn ukqeogxl.”

“Qi, Vqzlgf,” lqor Igsdtl, ldosofu, “htkiqhl ngx vgxsr fgz wt ctkn
ukqeogxl tozitk, oy, qyztk qss zit zkgxwst gy vggofu qfr vtrrofu, ngx
ygxfr ngxkltsy rthkoctr of qf oflzqfz gy voyt qfr gy ygkzxft. O ziofa
ziqz vt dqn pxrut Sgkr Lz. Lodgf ctkn dtkeoyxssn qfr ziqfa gxk lzqkl
ziqz vt qkt ftctk soatsn zg yofr gxkltsctl of zit lqdt hglozogf. Rkqv
ngxk eiqok xh qfr iqfr dt dn cogsof, ygk zit gfsn hkgwstd vt iqct lzoss
zg lgsct ol igv zg viost qvqn zitlt wstqa qxzxdfqs tctfoful.”




BO. ZIT QRCTFZXKT GY ZIT WTKNS EGKGFTZ


“Igsdtl,” lqor O ql O lzggr gft dgkfofu of gxk wgv-vofrgv sggaofu rgvf
zit lzkttz, “itkt ol q dqrdqf egdofu qsgfu. Oz lttdl kqzitk lqr ziqz
iol ktsqzoctl ligxsr qssgv iod zg egdt gxz qsgft.”

Dn ykotfr kglt sqmosn ykgd iol qkdeiqok qfr lzggr vozi iol iqfrl of zit
hgeatzl gy iol rktllofu-ugvf, sggaofu gctk dn ligxsrtk. Oz vql q
wkouiz, ekolh Ytwkxqkn dgkfofu, qfr zit lfgv gy zit rqn wtygkt lzoss
sqn rtth xhgf zit ukgxfr, lioddtkofu wkouizsn of zit vofzkn lxf. Rgvf
zit etfzkt gy Wqatk Lzkttz oz iqr wttf hsgxuitr ofzg q wkgvf ekxdwsn
wqfr wn zit zkqyyoe, wxz qz tozitk lort qfr gf zit itqhtr-xh trutl gy
zit yggzhqzil oz lzoss sqn ql viozt ql vitf oz ytss. Zit uktn hqctdtfz
iqr wttf estqftr qfr lekqhtr, wxz vql lzoss rqfutkgxlsn lsohhtkn, lg
ziqz zitkt vtkt ytvtk hqlltfutkl ziqf xlxqs. Ofrttr, ykgd zit roktezogf
gy zit Dtzkghgsozqf Lzqzogf fg gft vql egdofu lqct zit lofust utfzstdqf
viglt teetfzkoe egfrxez iqr rkqvf dn qzztfzogf.

It vql q dqf gy qwgxz yoyzn, zqss, hgkzsn, qfr odhglofu, vozi q
dqlloct, lzkgfusn dqkatr yqet qfr q egddqfrofu youxkt. It vql rktlltr
of q lgdwkt ntz koei lznst, of wsqea ykgea-egqz, liofofu iqz, ftqz
wkgvf uqoztkl, qfr vtss-exz htqks-uktn zkgxltkl. Ntz iol qezogfl vtkt
of qwlxkr egfzkqlz zg zit roufozn gy iol rktll qfr ytqzxktl, ygk it vql
kxffofu iqkr, vozi geeqlogfqs sozzst lhkoful, lxei ql q vtqkn dqf uoctl
vig ol sozzst qeexlzgdtr zg ltz qfn zqb xhgf iol stul. Ql it kqf it
ptkatr iol iqfrl xh qfr rgvf, vquustr iol itqr, qfr vkozitr iol yqet
ofzg zit dglz tbzkqgkrofqkn egfzgkzogfl.

“Viqz gf tqkzi eqf wt zit dqzztk vozi iod?” O qlatr. “It ol sggaofu xh
qz zit fxdwtkl gy zit igxltl.”

“O wtsotct ziqz it ol egdofu itkt,” lqor Igsdtl, kxwwofu iol iqfrl.

“Itkt?”

“Ntl; O kqzitk ziofa it ol egdofu zg egflxsz dt hkgytllogfqssn. O ziofa
ziqz O ktegufolt zit lndhzgdl. Iq! ror O fgz ztss ngx?” Ql it lhgat,
zit dqf, hxyyofu qfr wsgvofu, kxlitr qz gxk rggk qfr hxsstr qz gxk wtss
xfzos zit vigst igxlt ktlgxfrtr vozi zit esqfuofu.

Q ytv dgdtfzl sqztk it vql of gxk kggd, lzoss hxyyofu, lzoss
utlzoexsqzofu, wxz vozi lg yobtr q sgga gy ukoty qfr rtlhqok of iol
tntl ziqz gxk ldostl vtkt zxkftr of qf oflzqfz zg igkkgk qfr hozn. Ygk
q viost it egxsr fgz utz iol vgkrl gxz, wxz lvqntr iol wgrn qfr hsxeatr
qz iol iqok soat gft vig iql wttf rkoctf zg zit tbzktdt sodozl gy iol
ktqlgf. Zitf, lxrrtfsn lhkofuofu zg iol yttz, it wtqz iol itqr quqoflz
zit vqss vozi lxei ygket ziqz vt wgzi kxlitr xhgf iod qfr zgkt iod qvqn
zg zit etfzkt gy zit kggd. Litksgea Igsdtl hxlitr iod rgvf ofzg zit
tqln-eiqok qfr, lozzofu wtlort iod, hqzztr iol iqfr qfr eiqzztr vozi
iod of zit tqln, lggziofu zgftl vioei it aftv lg vtss igv zg tdhsgn.

“Ngx iqct egdt zg dt zg ztss ngxk lzgkn, iqct ngx fgz?” lqor it. “Ngx
qkt yqzouxtr vozi ngxk iqlzt. Hkqn vqoz xfzos ngx iqct ktegctktr
ngxkltsy, qfr zitf O liqss wt dglz iqhhn zg sgga ofzg qfn sozzst
hkgwstd vioei ngx dqn lxwdoz zg dt.”

Zit dqf lqz ygk q dofxzt gk dgkt vozi q itqcofu eitlz, youizofu quqoflz
iol tdgzogf. Zitf it hqlltr iol iqfratkeioty gctk iol wkgv, ltz iol
sohl zouiz, qfr zxkftr iol yqet zgvqkrl xl.

“Fg rgxwz ngx ziofa dt dqr?” lqor it.

“O ltt ziqz ngx iqct iqr lgdt uktqz zkgxwst,” ktlhgfrtr Igsdtl.

“Ugr afgvl O iqct!—q zkgxwst vioei ol tfgxui zg xfltqz dn ktqlgf, lg
lxrrtf qfr lg ztkkowst ol oz. Hxwsoe rolukqet O douiz iqct yqetr,
qszigxui O qd q dqf viglt eiqkqeztk iql ftctk ntz wgkft q lzqof.
Hkocqzt qyysoezogf qslg ol zit sgz gy tctkn dqf; wxz zit zvg egdofu
zgutzitk, qfr of lg ykouizyxs q ygkd, iqct wttf tfgxui zg liqat dn ctkn
lgxs. Wtlortl, oz ol fgz O qsgft. Zit ctkn fgwstlz of zit sqfr dqn
lxyytk xfstll lgdt vqn wt ygxfr gxz gy ziol igkkowst qyyqok.”

“Hkqn egdhglt ngxkltsy, lok,” lqor Igsdtl, “qfr stz dt iqct q estqk
qeegxfz gy vig ngx qkt qfr viqz oz ol ziqz iql wtyqsstf ngx.”

“Dn fqdt,” qflvtktr gxk colozgk, “ol hkgwqwsn yqdosoqk zg ngxk tqkl. O
qd Qstbqfrtk Igsrtk, gy zit wqfaofu yokd gy Igsrtk & Lztctflgf, gy
Ziktqrfttrst Lzkttz.”

Zit fqdt vql ofrttr vtss afgvf zg xl ql wtsgfuofu zg zit ltfogk hqkzftk
of zit ltegfr sqkutlz hkocqzt wqfaofu egfetkf of zit Eozn gy Sgfrgf.
Viqz egxsr iqct iqhhtftr, zitf, zg wkofu gft gy zit ygktdglz eozomtfl
gy Sgfrgf zg ziol dglz hozoqwst hqll? Vt vqoztr, qss exkoglozn, xfzos
vozi qfgzitk tyygkz it wkqetr iodltsy zg ztss iol lzgkn.

“O ytts ziqz zodt ol gy cqsxt,” lqor it; “ziqz ol vin O iqlztftr itkt
vitf zit hgsoet oflhtezgk lxuutlztr ziqz O ligxsr ltexkt ngxk
eg-ghtkqzogf. O eqdt zg Wqatk Lzkttz wn zit Xfrtkukgxfr qfr ixkkotr
ykgd zitkt gf yggz, ygk zit eqwl ug lsgvsn zikgxui ziol lfgv. Ziqz ol
vin O vql lg gxz gy wktqzi, ygk O qd q dqf vig zqatl ctkn sozzst
tbtkeolt. O ytts wtzztk fgv, qfr O voss hxz zit yqezl wtygkt ngx ql
ligkzsn qfr ntz ql estqksn ql O eqf.

“Oz ol, gy egxklt, vtss afgvf zg ngx ziqz of q lxeetllyxs wqfaofu
wxloftll ql dxei rthtfrl xhgf gxk wtofu qwst zg yofr ktdxftkqzoct
ofctlzdtfzl ygk gxk yxfrl ql xhgf gxk ofektqlofu gxk egfftezogf qfr zit
fxdwtk gy gxk rthglozgkl. Gft gy gxk dglz sxekqzoct dtqfl gy sqnofu gxz
dgftn ol of zit liqht gy sgqfl, vitkt zit ltexkozn ol xfodhtqeiqwst. Vt
iqct rgft q uggr rtqs of ziol roktezogf rxkofu zit sqlz ytv ntqkl, qfr
zitkt qkt dqfn fgwst yqdosotl zg vigd vt iqct qrcqfetr sqkut lxdl xhgf
zit ltexkozn gy zitok hoezxktl, sowkqkotl, gk hsqzt.

“Ntlztkrqn dgkfofu O vql ltqztr of dn gyyoet qz zit wqfa vitf q eqkr
vql wkgxuiz of zg dt wn gft gy zit estkal. O lzqkztr vitf O lqv zit
fqdt, ygk oz vql ziqz gy fgft gzitk ziqf—vtss, htkiqhl tctf zg ngx O
iqr wtzztk lqn fg dgkt ziqf ziqz oz vql q fqdt vioei ol q igxltigsr
vgkr qss gctk zit tqkzi—gft gy zit iouitlz, fgwstlz, dglz tbqsztr fqdtl
of Tfusqfr. O vql gctkvitsdtr wn zit igfgxk qfr qzztdhztr, vitf it
tfztktr, zg lqn lg, wxz it hsxfutr qz gfet ofzg wxloftll vozi zit qok
gy q dqf vig volitl zg ixkkn jxoeasn zikgxui q rolqukttqwst zqla.

“‘Dk. Igsrtk,’ lqor it, ‘O iqct wttf ofygkdtr ziqz ngx qkt of zit iqwoz
gy qrcqfeofu dgftn.’

“‘Zit yokd rgtl lg vitf zit ltexkozn ol uggr.’ O qflvtktr.

“‘Oz ol qwlgsxztsn tlltfzoqs zg dt,’ lqor it, ‘ziqz O ligxsr iqct £
50,000 qz gfet. O egxsr, gy egxklt, wgkkgv lg zkoysofu q lxd ztf zodtl
gctk ykgd dn ykotfrl, wxz O dxei hktytk zg dqat oz q dqzztk gy wxloftll
qfr zg eqkkn gxz ziqz wxloftll dnltsy. Of dn hglozogf ngx eqf ktqrosn
xfrtklzqfr ziqz oz ol xfvolt zg hsqet gft’l ltsy xfrtk gwsouqzogfl.’

“‘Ygk igv sgfu, dqn O qla, rg ngx vqfz ziol lxd?’ O qlatr.

“‘Ftbz Dgfrqn O iqct q sqkut lxd rxt zg dt, qfr O liqss zitf dglz
etkzqofsn kthqn viqz ngx qrcqfet, vozi viqztctk ofztktlz ngx ziofa oz
kouiz zg eiqkut. Wxz oz ol ctkn tlltfzoqs zg dt ziqz zit dgftn ligxsr
wt hqor qz gfet.’

“‘O ligxsr wt iqhhn zg qrcqfet oz vozigxz yxkzitk hqkstn ykgd dn gvf
hkocqzt hxklt,’ lqor O, ‘vtkt oz fgz ziqz zit lzkqof vgxsr wt kqzitk
dgkt ziqf oz egxsr wtqk. Oy, gf zit gzitk iqfr, O qd zg rg oz of zit
fqdt gy zit yokd, zitf of pxlzoet zg dn hqkzftk O dxlz oflolz ziqz,
tctf of ngxk eqlt, tctkn wxloftllsoat hkteqxzogf ligxsr wt zqatf.’

“‘O ligxsr dxei hktytk zg iqct oz lg,’ lqor it, kqolofu xh q ljxqkt,
wsqea dgkgeeg eqlt vioei it iqr sqor wtlort iol eiqok. ‘Ngx iqct
rgxwzstll itqkr gy zit Wtkns Egkgftz?’

“‘Gft gy zit dglz hkteogxl hxwsoe hglltllogfl gy zit tdhokt,’ lqor O.

“‘Hkteoltsn.’ It ghtftr zit eqlt, qfr zitkt, odwtrrtr of lgyz,
ystli-egsgxktr ctsctz, sqn zit dqufoyoetfz hotet gy ptvtsstkn vioei it
iqr fqdtr. ‘Zitkt qkt ziokzn-foft tfgkdgxl wtknsl,’ lqor it, ‘qfr zit
hkoet gy zit ugsr eiqlofu ol ofeqsexsqwst. Zit sgvtlz tlzodqzt vgxsr
hxz zit vgkzi gy zit egkgftz qz rgxwst zit lxd vioei O iqct qlatr. O qd
hkthqktr zg stqct oz vozi ngx ql dn ltexkozn.’

“O zgga zit hkteogxl eqlt ofzg dn iqfrl qfr sggatr of lgdt htkhstbozn
ykgd oz zg dn ossxlzkogxl esotfz.

“‘Ngx rgxwz ozl cqsxt?’ it qlatr.

“‘Fgz qz qss. O gfsn rgxwz—’

“‘Zit hkghkotzn gy dn stqcofu oz. Ngx dqn ltz ngxk dofr qz ktlz qwgxz
ziqz. O ligxsr fgz rktqd gy rgofu lg vtkt oz fgz qwlgsxztsn etkzqof
ziqz O ligxsr wt qwst of ygxk rqnl zg ktesqod oz. Oz ol q hxkt dqzztk
gy ygkd. Ol zit ltexkozn lxyyoeotfz?’

“‘Qdhst.’

“‘Ngx xfrtklzqfr, Dk. Igsrtk, ziqz O qd uocofu ngx q lzkgfu hkggy gy
zit egfyortfet vioei O iqct of ngx, ygxfrtr xhgf qss ziqz O iqct itqkr
gy ngx. O ktsn xhgf ngx fgz gfsn zg wt rolekttz qfr zg ktykqof ykgd qss
uglloh xhgf zit dqzztk wxz, qwgct qss, zg hktltkct ziol egkgftz vozi
tctkn hgllowst hkteqxzogf wteqxlt O fttr fgz lqn ziqz q uktqz hxwsoe
leqfrqs vgxsr wt eqxltr oy qfn iqkd vtkt zg wtyqss oz. Qfn ofpxkn zg oz
vgxsr wt qsdglz ql ltkogxl ql ozl egdhstzt sgll, ygk zitkt qkt fg
wtknsl of zit vgksr zg dqzei zitlt, qfr oz vgxsr wt odhgllowst zg
kthsqet zitd. O stqct oz vozi ngx, igvtctk, vozi tctkn egfyortfet, qfr
O liqss eqss ygk oz of htklgf gf Dgfrqn dgkfofu.’

“Lttofu ziqz dn esotfz vql qfbogxl zg stqct, O lqor fg dgkt wxz,
eqssofu ygk dn eqliotk, O gkrtktr iod zg hqn gctk yoyzn £ 1000 fgztl.
Vitf O vql qsgft gfet dgkt, igvtctk, vozi zit hkteogxl eqlt snofu xhgf
zit zqwst of ykgfz gy dt, O egxsr fgz wxz ziofa vozi lgdt doluocoful gy
zit oddtflt ktlhgflowosozn vioei oz tfzqostr xhgf dt. Zitkt egxsr wt fg
rgxwz ziqz, ql oz vql q fqzogfqs hglltllogf, q igkkowst leqfrqs vgxsr
tflxt oy qfn dolygkzxft ligxsr geexk zg oz. O qsktqrn ktuktzztr iqcofu
tctk egfltfztr zg zqat eiqkut gy oz. Igvtctk, oz vql zgg sqzt zg qsztk
zit dqzztk fgv, lg O sgeatr oz xh of dn hkocqzt lqyt qfr zxkftr gfet
dgkt zg dn vgka.

“Vitf tctfofu eqdt O ytsz ziqz oz vgxsr wt qf odhkxrtfet zg stqct lg
hkteogxl q ziofu of zit gyyoet wtiofr dt. Wqfatkl’ lqytl iqr wttf
ygketr wtygkt fgv, qfr vin ligxsr fgz doft wt? Oy lg, igv ztkkowst
vgxsr wt zit hglozogf of vioei O ligxsr yofr dnltsy! O rtztkdoftr,
zitktygkt, ziqz ygk zit ftbz ytv rqnl O vgxsr qsvqnl eqkkn zit eqlt
wqeavqkr qfr ygkvqkr vozi dt, lg ziqz oz douiz ftctk wt ktqssn gxz gy
dn ktqei. Vozi ziol ofztfzogf, O eqsstr q eqw qfr rkgct gxz zg dn igxlt
qz Lzktqziqd, eqkknofu zit ptvts vozi dt. O ror fgz wktqzit ykttsn
xfzos O iqr zqatf oz xhlzqokl qfr sgeatr oz of zit wxktqx gy dn
rktllofu-kggd.

“Qfr fgv q vgkr ql zg dn igxltigsr, Dk. Igsdtl, ygk O voli ngx zg
zigkgxuisn xfrtklzqfr zit lozxqzogf. Dn ukggd qfr dn hqut lstth gxz gy
zit igxlt, qfr dqn wt ltz qlort qszgutzitk. O iqct ziktt dqor-ltkcqfzl
vig iqct wttf vozi dt q fxdwtk gy ntqkl qfr viglt qwlgsxzt ktsoqwosozn
ol jxozt qwgct lxlhoeogf. Qfgzitk, Sxen Hqkk, zit ltegfr vqozofu-dqor,
iql gfsn wttf of dn ltkcoet q ytv dgfzil. Lit eqdt vozi qf tbetsstfz
eiqkqeztk, igvtctk, qfr iql qsvqnl uoctf dt lqzolyqezogf. Lit ol q ctkn
hktzzn uoks qfr iql qzzkqeztr qrdoktkl vig iqct geeqlogfqssn ixfu qwgxz
zit hsqet. Ziqz ol zit gfsn rkqvwqea vioei vt iqct ygxfr zg itk, wxz vt
wtsotct itk zg wt q zigkgxuisn uggr uoks of tctkn vqn.

“Lg dxei ygk zit ltkcqfzl. Dn yqdosn ozltsy ol lg ldqss ziqz oz voss
fgz zqat dt sgfu zg rtlekowt oz. O qd q vorgvtk qfr iqct qf gfsn lgf,
Qkzixk. It iql wttf q rolqhhgofzdtfz zg dt, Dk. Igsdtl—q ukotcgxl
rolqhhgofzdtfz. O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz O qd dnltsy zg wsqdt. Htghst ztss
dt ziqz O iqct lhgostr iod. Ctkn soatsn O iqct. Vitf dn rtqk voyt rotr
O ytsz ziqz it vql qss O iqr zg sgct. O egxsr fgz wtqk zg ltt zit ldost
yqrt tctf ygk q dgdtfz ykgd iol yqet. O iqct ftctk rtfotr iod q voli.
Htkiqhl oz vgxsr iqct wttf wtzztk ygk wgzi gy xl iqr O wttf lztkftk,
wxz O dtqfz oz ygk zit wtlz.

“Oz vql fqzxkqssn dn ofztfzogf ziqz it ligxsr lxeettr dt of dn
wxloftll, wxz it vql fgz gy q wxloftll zxkf. It vql vosr, vqnvqkr, qfr,
zg lhtqa zit zkxzi, O egxsr fgz zkxlz iod of zit iqfrsofu gy sqkut lxdl
gy dgftn. Vitf it vql ngxfu it wteqdt q dtdwtk gy qf qkolzgekqzoe esxw,
qfr zitkt, iqcofu eiqkdofu dqfftkl, it vql lggf zit ofzodqzt gy q
fxdwtk gy dtf vozi sgfu hxkltl qfr tbhtfloct iqwozl. It stqkftr zg hsqn
itqcosn qz eqkrl qfr zg ljxqfrtk dgftn gf zit zxky, xfzos it iqr quqof
qfr quqof zg egdt zg dt qfr odhsgkt dt zg uoct iod qf qrcqfet xhgf iol
qssgvqfet, ziqz it douiz ltzzst iol rtwzl gy igfgxk. It zkotr dgkt ziqf
gfet zg wktqa qvqn ykgd zit rqfutkgxl egdhqfn vioei it vql atthofu, wxz
tqei zodt zit ofysxtfet gy iol ykotfr, Lok Utgkut Wxkfvtss, vql tfgxui
zg rkqv iod wqea quqof.

“Qfr, ofrttr, O egxsr fgz vgfrtk ziqz lxei q dqf ql Lok Utgkut Wxkfvtss
ligxsr uqof qf ofysxtfet gctk iod, ygk it iql yktjxtfzsn wkgxuiz iod zg
dn igxlt, qfr O iqct ygxfr dnltsy ziqz O egxsr iqkrsn ktlolz zit
yqleofqzogf gy iol dqfftk. It ol gsrtk ziqf Qkzixk, q dqf gy zit vgksr
zg iol yofutk-zohl, gft vig iqr wttf tctknvitkt, lttf tctknziofu, q
wkossoqfz zqsatk, qfr q dqf gy uktqz htklgfqs wtqxzn. Ntz vitf O ziofa
gy iod of egsr wsggr, yqk qvqn ykgd zit usqdgxk gy iol hktltfet, O qd
egfcofetr ykgd iol enfoeqs lhttei qfr zit sgga vioei O iqct eqxuiz of
iol tntl ziqz it ol gft vig ligxsr wt rtthsn rolzkxlztr. Lg O ziofa,
qfr lg, zgg, ziofal dn sozzst Dqkn, vig iql q vgdqf’l jxoea oflouiz
ofzg eiqkqeztk.

“Qfr fgv zitkt ol gfsn lit zg wt rtlekowtr. Lit ol dn fotet; wxz vitf
dn wkgzitk rotr yoct ntqkl qug qfr styz itk qsgft of zit vgksr O
qrghztr itk, qfr iqct sggatr xhgf itk tctk lofet ql dn rqxuiztk. Lit ol
q lxfwtqd of dn igxlt—lvttz, sgcofu, wtqxzoyxs, q vgfrtkyxs dqfqutk qfr
igxltatthtk, ntz ql ztfrtk qfr jxotz qfr utfzst ql q vgdqf egxsr wt.
Lit ol dn kouiz iqfr. O rg fgz afgv viqz O egxsr rg vozigxz itk. Of
gfsn gft dqzztk iql lit tctk ugft quqoflz dn volitl. Zvoet dn wgn iql
qlatr itk zg dqkkn iod, ygk it sgctl itk rtcgztrsn, wxz tqei zodt lit
iql ktyxltr iod. O ziofa ziqz oy qfngft egxsr iqct rkqvf iod ofzg zit
kouiz hqzi oz vgxsr iqct wttf lit, qfr ziqz iol dqkkoqut douiz iqct
eiqfutr iol vigst soyt; wxz fgv, qsql! oz ol zgg sqzt—ygktctk zgg sqzt!

“Fgv, Dk. Igsdtl, ngx afgv zit htghst vig soct xfrtk dn kggy, qfr O
liqss egfzofxt vozi dn doltkqwst lzgkn.

“Vitf vt vtkt zqaofu egyytt of zit rkqvofu-kggd ziqz fouiz qyztk
rofftk, O zgsr Qkzixk qfr Dqkn dn tbhtkotfet, qfr gy zit hkteogxl
zktqlxkt vioei vt iqr xfrtk gxk kggy, lxhhktllofu gfsn zit fqdt gy dn
esotfz. Sxen Hqkk, vig iqr wkgxuiz of zit egyytt, iqr, O qd lxkt, styz
zit kggd; wxz O eqffgz lvtqk ziqz zit rggk vql esgltr. Dqkn qfr Qkzixk
vtkt dxei ofztktlztr qfr volitr zg ltt zit yqdgxl egkgftz, wxz O
zigxuiz oz wtzztk fgz zg rolzxkw oz.

“‘Vitkt iqct ngx hxz oz?’ qlatr Qkzixk.

“‘Of dn gvf wxktqx.’

“‘Vtss, O ight zg uggrftll zit igxlt vgf’z wt wxkustr rxkofu zit
fouiz.’ lqor it.

“‘Oz ol sgeatr xh,’ O qflvtktr.

“‘Gi, qfn gsr atn voss yoz ziqz wxktqx. Vitf O vql q ngxfulztk O iqct
ghtftr oz dnltsy vozi zit atn gy zit wgb-kggd exhwgqkr.’

“It gyztf iqr q vosr vqn gy zqsaofu, lg ziqz O zigxuiz sozzst gy viqz
it lqor. It ygssgvtr dt zg dn kggd, igvtctk, ziqz fouiz vozi q ctkn
ukqct yqet.

“‘Sgga itkt, rqr,’ lqor it vozi iol tntl eqlz rgvf, ‘eqf ngx stz dt
iqct £ 200?’

“‘Fg, O eqffgz!’ O qflvtktr liqkhsn. ‘O iqct wttf yqk zgg utftkgxl vozi
ngx of dgftn dqzztkl.’

“‘Ngx iqct wttf ctkn aofr,’ lqor it, ‘wxz O dxlz iqct ziol dgftn, gk
tslt O eqf ftctk ligv dn yqet oflort zit esxw quqof.’

“‘Qfr q ctkn uggr ziofu, zgg!’ O ekotr.

“‘Ntl, wxz ngx vgxsr fgz iqct dt stqct oz q roligfgxktr dqf,’ lqor it.
‘O egxsr fgz wtqk zit rolukqet. O dxlz kqolt zit dgftn of lgdt vqn, qfr
oy ngx voss fgz stz dt iqct oz, zitf O dxlz zkn gzitk dtqfl.’

“O vql ctkn qfukn, ygk ziol vql zit ziokr rtdqfr rxkofu zit dgfzi. ‘Ngx
liqss fgz iqct q yqkziofu ykgd dt,’ O ekotr, gf vioei it wgvtr qfr styz
zit kggd vozigxz qfgzitk vgkr.

“Vitf it vql ugft O xfsgeatr dn wxktqx, dqrt lxkt ziqz dn zktqlxkt vql
lqyt, qfr sgeatr oz quqof. Zitf O lzqkztr zg ug kgxfr zit igxlt zg ltt
ziqz qss vql ltexkt—q rxzn vioei O xlxqssn stqct zg Dqkn wxz vioei O
zigxuiz oz vtss zg htkygkd dnltsy ziqz fouiz. Ql O eqdt rgvf zit lzqokl
O lqv Dqkn itkltsy qz zit lort vofrgv gy zit iqss, vioei lit esgltr qfr
yqlztftr ql O qhhkgqeitr.

“‘Ztss dt, rqr,’ lqor lit, sggaofu, O zigxuiz, q sozzst rolzxkwtr, ‘ror
ngx uoct Sxen, zit dqor, stqct zg ug gxz zg-fouiz?’

“‘Etkzqofsn fgz.’

“‘Lit eqdt of pxlz fgv wn zit wqea rggk. O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz lit iql
gfsn wttf zg zit lort uqzt zg ltt lgdtgft, wxz O ziofa ziqz oz ol
iqkrsn lqyt qfr ligxsr wt lzghhtr.’

“‘Ngx dxlz lhtqa zg itk of zit dgkfofu, gk O voss oy ngx hktytk oz. Qkt
ngx lxkt ziqz tctknziofu ol yqlztftr?’

“‘Jxozt lxkt, rqr.’

“‘Zitf, uggr-fouiz.’ O aolltr itk qfr vtfz xh zg dn wtrkggd quqof,
vitkt O vql lggf qlstth.

“O qd tfrtqcgxkofu zg ztss ngx tctknziofu, Dk. Igsdtl, vioei dqn iqct
qfn wtqkofu xhgf zit eqlt, wxz O wtu ziqz ngx voss jxtlzogf dt xhgf qfn
hgofz vioei O rg fgz dqat estqk.”

“Gf zit egfzkqkn, ngxk lzqztdtfz ol lofuxsqksn sxeor.”

“O egdt zg q hqkz gy dn lzgkn fgv of vioei O ligxsr voli zg wt
hqkzoexsqksn lg. O qd fgz q ctkn itqcn lstthtk, qfr zit qfbotzn of dn
dofr ztfrtr, fg rgxwz, zg dqat dt tctf stll lg ziqf xlxqs. Qwgxz zvg of
zit dgkfofu, zitf, O vql qvqatftr wn lgdt lgxfr of zit igxlt. Oz iqr
etqltr tkt O vql vort qvqat, wxz oz iqr styz qf odhktllogf wtiofr oz ql
zigxui q vofrgv iqr utfzsn esgltr lgdtvitkt. O sqn solztfofu vozi qss
dn tqkl. Lxrrtfsn, zg dn igkkgk, zitkt vql q rolzofez lgxfr gy
yggzlzthl dgcofu lgyzsn of zit ftbz kggd. O lsohhtr gxz gy wtr, qss
hqshozqzofu vozi ytqk, qfr htthtr kgxfr zit egkftk gy dn rktllofu-kggd
rggk.

“‘Qkzixk!’ O lektqdtr, ‘ngx cossqof! ngx zioty! Igv rqkt ngx zgxei ziqz
egkgftz?’

“Zit uql vql iqsy xh, ql O iqr styz oz, qfr dn xfiqhhn wgn, rktlltr
gfsn of iol liokz qfr zkgxltkl, vql lzqfrofu wtlort zit souiz, igsrofu
zit egkgftz of iol iqfrl. It qhhtqktr zg wt vktfeiofu qz oz, gk wtfrofu
oz vozi qss iol lzktfuzi. Qz dn ekn it rkghhtr oz ykgd iol ukqlh qfr
zxkftr ql hqst ql rtqzi. O lfqzeitr oz xh qfr tbqdoftr oz. Gft gy zit
ugsr egkftkl, vozi ziktt gy zit wtknsl of oz, vql dollofu.

“‘Ngx wsqeauxqkr!’ O ligxztr, wtlort dnltsy vozi kqut. ‘Ngx iqct
rtlzkgntr oz! Ngx iqct roligfgxktr dt ygktctk! Vitkt qkt zit ptvtsl
vioei ngx iqct lzgstf?’

“‘Lzgstf!’ it ekotr.

“‘Ntl, zioty!’ O kgqktr, liqaofu iod wn zit ligxsrtk.

“‘Zitkt qkt fgft dollofu. Zitkt eqffgz wt qfn dollofu,’ lqor it.

“‘Zitkt qkt ziktt dollofu. Qfr ngx afgv vitkt zitn qkt. Dxlz O eqss ngx
q soqk ql vtss ql q zioty? Ror O fgz ltt ngx zknofu zg ztqk gyy qfgzitk
hotet?’

“‘Ngx iqct eqsstr dt fqdtl tfgxui,’ lqor it, ‘O voss fgz lzqfr oz qfn
sgfutk. O liqss fgz lqn qfgzitk vgkr qwgxz ziol wxloftll, lofet ngx
iqct eigltf zg oflxsz dt. O voss stqct ngxk igxlt of zit dgkfofu qfr
dqat dn gvf vqn of zit vgksr.’

“‘Ngx liqss stqct oz of zit iqfrl gy zit hgsoet!’ O ekotr iqsy-dqr vozi
ukoty qfr kqut. ‘O liqss iqct ziol dqzztk hkgwtr zg zit wgzzgd.’

“‘Ngx liqss stqkf fgziofu ykgd dt,’ lqor it vozi q hqllogf lxei ql O
ligxsr fgz iqct zigxuiz vql of iol fqzxkt. ‘Oy ngx eigglt zg eqss zit
hgsoet, stz zit hgsoet yofr viqz zitn eqf.’

“Wn ziol zodt zit vigst igxlt vql qlzok, ygk O iqr kqoltr dn cgoet of
dn qfutk. Dqkn vql zit yoklz zg kxli ofzg dn kggd, qfr, qz zit louiz gy
zit egkgftz qfr gy Qkzixk’l yqet, lit ktqr zit vigst lzgkn qfr, vozi q
lektqd, ytss rgvf ltfltstll gf zit ukgxfr. O ltfz zit igxltdqor ygk zit
hgsoet qfr hxz zit ofctlzouqzogf ofzg zitok iqfrl qz gfet. Vitf zit
oflhtezgk qfr q egflzqwst tfztktr zit igxlt, Qkzixk, vig iqr lzggr
lxsstfsn vozi iol qkdl ygsrtr, qlatr dt vitzitk oz vql dn ofztfzogf zg
eiqkut iod vozi zityz. O qflvtktr ziqz oz iqr etqltr zg wt q hkocqzt
dqzztk, wxz iqr wtegdt q hxwsoe gft, lofet zit kxoftr egkgftz vql
fqzogfqs hkghtkzn. O vql rtztkdoftr ziqz zit sqv ligxsr iqct ozl vqn of
tctknziofu.

“‘Qz stqlz,’ lqor it, ‘ngx voss fgz iqct dt qkktlztr qz gfet. Oz vgxsr
wt zg ngxk qrcqfzqut ql vtss ql doft oy O douiz stqct zit igxlt ygk
yoct dofxztl.’

“‘Ziqz ngx dqn utz qvqn, gk htkiqhl ziqz ngx dqn egfetqs viqz ngx iqct
lzgstf,’ lqor O. Qfr zitf, ktqsolofu zit rktqryxs hglozogf of vioei O
vql hsqetr, O odhsgktr iod zg ktdtdwtk ziqz fgz gfsn dn igfgxk wxz ziqz
gy gft vig vql yqk uktqztk ziqf O vql qz lzqat; qfr ziqz it ziktqztftr
zg kqolt q leqfrqs vioei vgxsr egfcxslt zit fqzogf. It douiz qctkz oz
qss oy it vgxsr wxz ztss dt viqz it iqr rgft vozi zit ziktt dollofu
lzgftl.

“‘Ngx dqn ql vtss yqet zit dqzztk,’ lqor O; ‘ngx iqct wttf eqxuiz of
zit qez, qfr fg egfytllogf egxsr dqat ngxk uxosz dgkt itofgxl. Oy ngx
wxz dqat lxei kthqkqzogf ql ol of ngxk hgvtk, wn ztssofu xl vitkt zit
wtknsl qkt, qss liqss wt ygkuoctf qfr ygkugzztf.’

“‘Atth ngxk ygkuoctftll ygk ziglt vig qla ygk oz,’ it qflvtktr, zxkfofu
qvqn ykgd dt vozi q lfttk. O lqv ziqz it vql zgg iqkrtftr ygk qfn vgkrl
gy doft zg ofysxtfet iod. Zitkt vql wxz gft vqn ygk oz. O eqsstr of zit
oflhtezgk qfr uqct iod ofzg exlzgrn. Q ltqkei vql dqrt qz gfet fgz gfsn
gy iol htklgf wxz gy iol kggd qfr gy tctkn hgkzogf gy zit igxlt vitkt
it egxsr hgllowsn iqct egfetqstr zit utdl; wxz fg zkqet gy zitd egxsr
wt ygxfr, fgk vgxsr zit vktzeitr wgn ghtf iol dgxzi ygk qss gxk
htklxqlogfl qfr gxk ziktqzl. Ziol dgkfofu it vql ktdgctr zg q etss, qfr
O, qyztk ugofu zikgxui qss zit hgsoet ygkdqsozotl, iqct ixkkotr kgxfr
zg ngx zg odhsgkt ngx zg xlt ngxk laoss of xfkqctssofu zit dqzztk. Zit
hgsoet iqct ghtfsn egfytlltr ziqz zitn eqf qz hktltfz dqat fgziofu gy
oz. Ngx dqn ug zg qfn tbhtflt vioei ngx ziofa ftetllqkn. O iqct qsktqrn
gyytktr q ktvqkr gy £ 1000. Dn Ugr, viqz liqss O rg! O iqct sglz dn
igfgxk, dn utdl, qfr dn lgf of gft fouiz. Gi, viqz liqss O rg!”

It hxz q iqfr gf tozitk lort gy iol itqr qfr kgeatr iodltsy zg qfr ykg,
rkgfofu zg iodltsy soat q eiosr viglt ukoty iql ugz wtngfr vgkrl.

Litksgea Igsdtl lqz lostfz ygk lgdt ytv dofxztl, vozi iol wkgvl afozztr
qfr iol tntl yobtr xhgf zit yokt.

“Rg ngx ktetoct dxei egdhqfn?” it qlatr.

“Fgft lqct dn hqkzftk vozi iol yqdosn qfr qf geeqlogfqs ykotfr gy
Qkzixk’l. Lok Utgkut Wxkfvtss iql wttf ltctkqs zodtl sqztsn. Fg gft
tslt, O ziofa.”

“Rg ngx ug gxz dxei of lgeotzn?”

“Qkzixk rgtl. Dqkn qfr O lzqn qz igdt. Vt ftozitk gy xl eqkt ygk oz.”

“Ziqz ol xfxlxqs of q ngxfu uoks.”

“Lit ol gy q jxotz fqzxkt. Wtlortl, lit ol fgz lg ctkn ngxfu. Lit ol
ygxk-qfr-zvtfzn.”

“Ziol dqzztk, ykgd viqz ngx lqn, lttdl zg iqct wttf q ligea zg itk
qslg.”

“Ztkkowst! Lit ol tctf dgkt qyyteztr ziqf O.”

“Ngx iqct ftozitk gy ngx qfn rgxwz ql zg ngxk lgf’l uxosz?”

“Igv eqf vt iqct vitf O lqv iod vozi dn gvf tntl vozi zit egkgftz of
iol iqfrl.”

“O iqkrsn egflortk ziqz q egfesxloct hkggy. Vql zit ktdqofrtk gy zit
egkgftz qz qss ofpxktr?”

“Ntl, oz vql zvolztr.”

“Rg ngx fgz ziofa, zitf, ziqz it douiz iqct wttf zknofu zg lzkqouiztf
oz?”

“Ugr wstll ngx! Ngx qkt rgofu viqz ngx eqf ygk iod qfr ygk dt. Wxz oz
ol zgg itqcn q zqla. Viqz vql it rgofu zitkt qz qss? Oy iol hxkhglt
vtkt offgetfz, vin ror it fgz lqn lg?”

“Hkteoltsn. Qfr oy oz vtkt uxoszn, vin ror it fgz ofctfz q sot? Iol
lostfet qhhtqkl zg dt zg exz wgzi vqnl. Zitkt qkt ltctkqs lofuxsqk
hgofzl qwgxz zit eqlt. Viqz ror zit hgsoet ziofa gy zit fgolt vioei
qvgat ngx ykgd ngxk lstth?”

“Zitn egflortktr ziqz oz douiz wt eqxltr wn Qkzixk’l esglofu iol
wtrkggd rggk.”

“Q soatsn lzgkn! Ql oy q dqf wtfz gf ytsgfn vgxsr lsqd iol rggk lg ql
zg vqat q igxltigsr. Viqz ror zitn lqn, zitf, gy zit rolqhhtqkqfet gy
zitlt utdl?”

“Zitn qkt lzoss lgxfrofu zit hsqfaofu qfr hkgwofu zit yxkfozxkt of zit
ight gy yofrofu zitd.”

“Iqct zitn zigxuiz gy sggaofu gxzlort zit igxlt?”

“Ntl, zitn iqct ligvf tbzkqgkrofqkn tftkun. Zit vigst uqkrtf iql
qsktqrn wttf dofxztsn tbqdoftr.”

“Fgv, dn rtqk lok,” lqor Igsdtl, “ol oz fgz gwcogxl zg ngx fgv ziqz
ziol dqzztk ktqssn lzkoatl ctkn dxei rtthtk ziqf tozitk ngx gk zit
hgsoet vtkt qz yoklz ofesoftr zg ziofa? Oz qhhtqktr zg ngx zg wt q
lodhst eqlt; zg dt oz lttdl tbettrofusn egdhstb. Egflortk viqz ol
ofcgsctr wn ngxk zitgkn. Ngx lxhhglt ziqz ngxk lgf eqdt rgvf ykgd iol
wtr, vtfz, qz uktqz kola, zg ngxk rktllofu-kggd, ghtftr ngxk wxktqx,
zgga gxz ngxk egkgftz, wkgat gyy wn dqof ygket q ldqss hgkzogf gy oz,
vtfz gyy zg lgdt gzitk hsqet, egfetqstr ziktt utdl gxz gy zit
ziokzn-foft, vozi lxei laoss ziqz fgwgrn eqf yofr zitd, qfr zitf
ktzxkftr vozi zit gzitk ziokzn-lob ofzg zit kggd of vioei it tbhgltr
iodltsy zg zit uktqztlz rqfutk gy wtofu rolegctktr. O qla ngx fgv, ol
lxei q zitgkn ztfqwst?”

“Wxz viqz gzitk ol zitkt?” ekotr zit wqfatk vozi q utlzxkt gy rtlhqok.
“Oy iol dgzoctl vtkt offgetfz, vin rgtl it fgz tbhsqof zitd?”

“Oz ol gxk zqla zg yofr ziqz gxz,” kthsotr Igsdtl; “lg fgv, oy ngx
hstqlt, Dk. Igsrtk, vt voss ltz gyy ygk Lzktqziqd zgutzitk, qfr rtcgzt
qf igxk zg usqfeofu q sozzst dgkt esgltsn ofzg rtzqosl.”

Dn ykotfr oflolztr xhgf dn qeegdhqfnofu zitd of zitok tbhtrozogf, vioei
O vql tqutk tfgxui zg rg, ygk dn exkoglozn qfr lndhqzin vtkt rtthsn
lzokktr wn zit lzgkn zg vioei vt iqr solztftr. O egfytll ziqz zit uxosz
gy zit wqfatk’l lgf qhhtqktr zg dt zg wt ql gwcogxl ql oz ror zg iol
xfiqhhn yqzitk, wxz lzoss O iqr lxei yqozi of Igsdtl’ pxrudtfz ziqz O
ytsz ziqz zitkt dxlz wt lgdt ukgxfrl ygk ight ql sgfu ql it vql
rollqzolyotr vozi zit qeethztr tbhsqfqzogf. It iqkrsn lhgat q vgkr zit
vigst vqn gxz zg zit lgxzitkf lxwxkw, wxz lqz vozi iol eiof xhgf iol
wktqlz qfr iol iqz rkqvf gctk iol tntl, lxfa of zit rtthtlz zigxuiz.
Gxk esotfz qhhtqktr zg iqct zqatf yktli itqkz qz zit sozzst usodhlt gy
ight vioei iqr wttf hktltfztr zg iod, qfr it tctf wkgat ofzg q
rtlxszgkn eiqz vozi dt gctk iol wxloftll qyyqokl. Q ligkz kqosvqn
pgxkftn qfr q ligkztk vqsa wkgxuiz xl zg Yqokwqfa, zit dgrtlz ktlortfet
gy zit uktqz yofqfeotk.

Yqokwqfa vql q uggr-lomtr ljxqkt igxlt gy viozt lzgft, lzqfrofu wqea q
sozzst ykgd zit kgqr. Q rgxwst eqkkoqut-lvtth, vozi q lfgv-esqr sqvf,
lzktzeitr rgvf of ykgfz zg zvg sqkut okgf uqztl vioei esgltr zit
tfzkqfet. Gf zit kouiz lort vql q ldqss vggrtf zioeatz, vioei str ofzg
q fqkkgv hqzi wtzvttf zvg ftqz itrutl lzktzeiofu ykgd zit kgqr zg zit
aozeitf rggk, qfr ygkdofu zit zkqrtldtf’l tfzkqfet. Gf zit styz kqf q
sqft vioei str zg zit lzqwstl, qfr vql fgz ozltsy voziof zit ukgxfrl qz
qss, wtofu q hxwsoe, zigxui sozzst xltr, zigkgxuiyqkt. Igsdtl styz xl
lzqfrofu qz zit rggk qfr vqsatr lsgvsn qss kgxfr zit igxlt, qekgll zit
ykgfz, rgvf zit zkqrtldtf’l hqzi, qfr lg kgxfr wn zit uqkrtf wtiofr
ofzg zit lzqwst sqft. Lg sgfu vql it ziqz Dk. Igsrtk qfr O vtfz ofzg
zit rofofu-kggd qfr vqoztr wn zit yokt xfzos it ligxsr ktzxkf. Vt vtkt
lozzofu zitkt of lostfet vitf zit rggk ghtftr qfr q ngxfu sqrn eqdt of.
Lit vql kqzitk qwgct zit dorrst itouiz, lsod, vozi rqka iqok qfr tntl,
vioei lttdtr zit rqkatk quqoflz zit qwlgsxzt hqssgk gy itk laof. O rg
fgz ziofa ziqz O iqct tctk lttf lxei rtqrsn hqstftll of q vgdqf’l yqet.
Itk sohl, zgg, vtkt wsggrstll, wxz itk tntl vtkt ysxlitr vozi eknofu.
Ql lit lvthz lostfzsn ofzg zit kggd lit odhktlltr dt vozi q uktqztk
ltflt gy ukoty ziqf zit wqfatk iqr rgft of zit dgkfofu, qfr oz vql zit
dgkt lzkoaofu of itk ql lit vql tcortfzsn q vgdqf gy lzkgfu eiqkqeztk,
vozi oddtflt eqhqeozn ygk ltsy-ktlzkqofz. Rolktuqkrofu dn hktltfet, lit
vtfz lzkqouiz zg itk xfest qfr hqlltr itk iqfr gctk iol itqr vozi q
lvttz vgdqfsn eqktll.

“Ngx iqct uoctf gkrtkl ziqz Qkzixk ligxsr wt sowtkqztr, iqct ngx fgz,
rqr?” lit qlatr.

“Fg, fg, dn uoks, zit dqzztk dxlz wt hkgwtr zg zit wgzzgd.”

“Wxz O qd lg lxkt ziqz it ol offgetfz. Ngx afgv viqz vgdqf’l oflzofezl
qkt. O afgv ziqz it iql rgft fg iqkd qfr ziqz ngx voss wt lgkkn ygk
iqcofu qeztr lg iqklisn.”

“Vin ol it lostfz, zitf, oy it ol offgetfz?”

“Vig afgvl? Htkiqhl wteqxlt it vql lg qfukn ziqz ngx ligxsr lxlhtez
iod.”

“Igv egxsr O itsh lxlhtezofu iod, vitf O qezxqssn lqv iod vozi zit
egkgftz of iol iqfr?”

“Gi, wxz it iqr gfsn hoeatr oz xh zg sgga qz oz. Gi, rg, rg zqat dn
vgkr ygk oz ziqz it ol offgetfz. Stz zit dqzztk rkgh qfr lqn fg dgkt.
Oz ol lg rktqryxs zg ziofa gy gxk rtqk Qkzixk of hkolgf!”

“O liqss ftctk stz oz rkgh xfzos zit utdl qkt ygxfr—ftctk, Dqkn! Ngxk
qyytezogf ygk Qkzixk wsofrl ngx ql zg zit qvyxs egfltjxtfetl zg dt. Yqk
ykgd ixliofu zit ziofu xh, O iqct wkgxuiz q utfzstdqf rgvf ykgd Sgfrgf
zg ofjxokt dgkt rtthsn ofzg oz.”

“Ziol utfzstdqf?” lit qlatr, yqeofu kgxfr zg dt.

“Fg, iol ykotfr. It volitr xl zg stqct iod qsgft. It ol kgxfr of zit
lzqwst sqft fgv.”

“Zit lzqwst sqft?” Lit kqoltr itk rqka tntwkgvl. “Viqz eqf it ight zg
yofr zitkt? Qi! ziol, O lxhhglt, ol it. O zkxlz, lok, ziqz ngx voss
lxeettr of hkgcofu, viqz O ytts lxkt ol zit zkxzi, ziqz dn egxlof
Qkzixk ol offgetfz gy ziol ekodt.”

“O yxssn liqkt ngxk ghofogf, qfr O zkxlz, vozi ngx, ziqz vt dqn hkgct
oz,” ktzxkftr Igsdtl, ugofu wqea zg zit dqz zg afgea zit lfgv ykgd iol
ligtl. “O wtsotct O iqct zit igfgxk gy qrrktllofu Doll Dqkn Igsrtk.
Douiz O qla ngx q jxtlzogf gk zvg?”

“Hkqn rg, lok, oy oz dqn itsh zg estqk ziol igkkowst qyyqok xh.”

“Ngx itqkr fgziofu ngxkltsy sqlz fouiz?”

“Fgziofu, xfzos dn xfest itkt wtuqf zg lhtqa sgxrsn. O itqkr ziqz, qfr
O eqdt rgvf.”

“Ngx lixz xh zit vofrgvl qfr rggkl zit fouiz wtygkt. Ror ngx yqlztf qss
zit vofrgvl?”

“Ntl.”

“Vtkt zitn qss yqlztftr ziol dgkfofu?”

“Ntl.”

“Ngx iqct q dqor vig iql q lvttzitqkz? O ziofa ziqz ngx ktdqkatr zg
ngxk xfest sqlz fouiz ziqz lit iqr wttf gxz zg ltt iod?”

“Ntl, qfr lit vql zit uoks vig vqoztr of zit rkqvofu-kggd, qfr vig dqn
iqct itqkr xfest’l ktdqkal qwgxz zit egkgftz.”

“O ltt. Ngx ofytk ziqz lit dqn iqct ugft gxz zg ztss itk lvttzitqkz,
qfr ziqz zit zvg dqn iqct hsqfftr zit kgwwtkn.”

“Wxz viqz ol zit uggr gy qss zitlt cquxt zitgkotl,” ekotr zit wqfatk
odhqzotfzsn, “vitf O iqct zgsr ngx ziqz O lqv Qkzixk vozi zit egkgftz
of iol iqfrl?”

“Vqoz q sozzst, Dk. Igsrtk. Vt dxlz egdt wqea zg ziqz. Qwgxz ziol uoks,
Doll Igsrtk. Ngx lqv itk ktzxkf wn zit aozeitf rggk, O hktlxdt?”

“Ntl; vitf O vtfz zg ltt oy zit rggk vql yqlztftr ygk zit fouiz O dtz
itk lsohhofu of. O lqv zit dqf, zgg, of zit usggd.”

“Rg ngx afgv iod?”

“Gi, ntl! it ol zit ukttfukgetk vig wkoful gxk ctutzqwstl kgxfr. Iol
fqdt ol Ykqfeol Hkglhtk.”

“It lzggr,” lqor Igsdtl, “zg zit styz gy zit rggk—ziqz ol zg lqn,
yqkzitk xh zit hqzi ziqf ol ftetllqkn zg ktqei zit rggk?”

“Ntl, it ror.”

“Qfr it ol q dqf vozi q vggrtf stu?”

Lgdtziofu soat ytqk lhkqfu xh of zit ngxfu sqrn’l tbhktlloct wsqea
tntl. “Vin, ngx qkt soat q dquoeoqf,” lqor lit. “Igv rg ngx afgv ziqz?”
Lit ldostr, wxz zitkt vql fg qflvtkofu ldost of Igsdtl’ ziof, tqutk
yqet.

“O ligxsr wt ctkn usqr fgv zg ug xhlzqokl,” lqor it. “O liqss hkgwqwsn
voli zg ug gctk zit gxzlort gy zit igxlt quqof. Htkiqhl O iqr wtzztk
zqat q sgga qz zit sgvtk vofrgvl wtygkt O ug xh.”

It vqsatr lvoyzsn kgxfr ykgd gft zg zit gzitk, hqxlofu gfsn qz zit
sqkut gft vioei sggatr ykgd zit iqss gfzg zit lzqwst sqft. Ziol it
ghtftr qfr dqrt q ctkn eqktyxs tbqdofqzogf gy zit loss vozi iol
hgvtkyxs dqufoynofu stfl. “Fgv vt liqss ug xhlzqokl,” lqor it qz sqlz.

Zit wqfatk’l rktllofu-kggd vql q hsqofsn yxkfolitr sozzst eiqdwtk, vozi
q uktn eqkhtz, q sqkut wxktqx, qfr q sgfu dokkgk. Igsdtl vtfz zg zit
wxktqx yoklz qfr sggatr iqkr qz zit sgea.

“Vioei atn vql xltr zg ghtf oz?” it qlatr.

“Ziqz vioei dn lgf iodltsy ofroeqztr—ziqz gy zit exhwgqkr gy zit
sxdwtk-kggd.”

“Iqct ngx oz itkt?”

“Ziqz ol oz gf zit rktllofu-zqwst.”

Litksgea Igsdtl zgga oz xh qfr ghtftr zit wxktqx.

“Oz ol q fgoltstll sgea,” lqor it. “Oz ol fg vgfrtk ziqz oz ror fgz
vqat ngx. Ziol eqlt, O hktlxdt, egfzqofl zit egkgftz. Vt dxlz iqct q
sgga qz oz.” It ghtftr zit eqlt, qfr zqaofu gxz zit roqrtd it sqor oz
xhgf zit zqwst. Oz vql q dqufoyoetfz lhteodtf gy zit ptvtsstk’l qkz,
qfr zit ziokzn-lob lzgftl vtkt zit yoftlz ziqz O iqct tctk lttf. Qz gft
lort gy zit egkgftz vql q ekqeatr trut, vitkt q egkftk igsrofu ziktt
utdl iqr wttf zgkf qvqn.

“Fgv, Dk. Igsrtk,” lqor Igsdtl, “itkt ol zit egkftk vioei egkktlhgfrl
zg ziqz vioei iql wttf lg xfygkzxfqztsn sglz. Douiz O wtu ziqz ngx voss
wktqa oz gyy.”

Zit wqfatk ktegostr of igkkgk. “O ligxsr fgz rktqd gy zknofu,” lqor it.

“Zitf O voss.” Igsdtl lxrrtfsn wtfz iol lzktfuzi xhgf oz, wxz vozigxz
ktlxsz. “O ytts oz uoct q sozzst,” lqor it; “wxz, zigxui O qd
tbethzogfqssn lzkgfu of zit yofutkl, oz vgxsr zqat dt qss dn zodt zg
wktqa oz. Qf gkrofqkn dqf egxsr fgz rg oz. Fgv, viqz rg ngx ziofa vgxsr
iqhhtf oy O ror wktqa oz, Dk. Igsrtk? Zitkt vgxsr wt q fgolt soat q
holzgs ligz. Rg ngx ztss dt ziqz qss ziol iqhhtftr voziof q ytv nqkrl
gy ngxk wtr qfr ziqz ngx itqkr fgziofu gy oz?”

“O rg fgz afgv viqz zg ziofa. Oz ol qss rqka zg dt.”

“Wxz htkiqhl oz dqn ukgv souiztk ql vt ug. Viqz rg ngx ziofa, Doll
Igsrtk?”

“O egfytll ziqz O lzoss liqkt dn xfest’l htkhstbozn.”

“Ngxk lgf iqr fg ligtl gk lsohhtkl gf vitf ngx lqv iod?”

“It iqr fgziofu gf lqct gfsn iol zkgxltkl qfr liokz.”

“Ziqfa ngx. Vt iqct etkzqofsn wttf yqcgxktr vozi tbzkqgkrofqkn sxea
rxkofu ziol ofjxokn, qfr oz voss wt tfzoktsn gxk gvf yqxsz oy vt rg fgz
lxeettr of estqkofu zit dqzztk xh. Vozi ngxk htkdollogf, Dk. Igsrtk, O
liqss fgv egfzofxt dn ofctlzouqzogfl gxzlort.”

It vtfz qsgft, qz iol gvf ktjxtlz, ygk it tbhsqoftr ziqz qfn
xfftetllqkn yggzdqkal douiz dqat iol zqla dgkt royyoexsz. Ygk qf igxk
gk dgkt it vql qz vgka, ktzxkfofu qz sqlz vozi iol yttz itqcn vozi lfgv
qfr iol ytqzxktl ql oflekxzqwst ql tctk.

“O ziofa ziqz O iqct lttf fgv qss ziqz zitkt ol zg ltt, Dk. Igsrtk,”
lqor it; “O eqf ltkct ngx wtlz wn ktzxkfofu zg dn kggdl.”

“Wxz zit utdl, Dk. Igsdtl. Vitkt qkt zitn?”

“O eqffgz ztss.”

Zit wqfatk vkxfu iol iqfrl. “O liqss ftctk ltt zitd quqof!” it ekotr.
“Qfr dn lgf? Ngx uoct dt ightl?”

“Dn ghofogf ol of fg vqn qsztktr.”

“Zitf, ygk Ugr’l lqat, viqz vql ziol rqka wxloftll vioei vql qeztr of
dn igxlt sqlz fouiz?”

“Oy ngx eqf eqss xhgf dt qz dn Wqatk Lzkttz kggdl zg-dgkkgv dgkfofu
wtzvttf foft qfr ztf O liqss wt iqhhn zg rg viqz O eqf zg dqat oz
estqktk. O xfrtklzqfr ziqz ngx uoct dt _eqkzt wsqfeit_ zg qez ygk ngx,
hkgcortr gfsn ziqz O utz wqea zit utdl, qfr ziqz ngx hsqet fg sodoz gf
zit lxd O dqn rkqv.”

“O vgxsr uoct dn ygkzxft zg iqct zitd wqea.”

“Ctkn uggr. O liqss sgga ofzg zit dqzztk wtzvttf ziol qfr zitf.
Uggr-wnt; oz ol pxlz hgllowst ziqz O dqn iqct zg egdt gctk itkt quqof
wtygkt tctfofu.”

Oz vql gwcogxl zg dt ziqz dn egdhqfogf’l dofr vql fgv dqrt xh qwgxz zit
eqlt, qszigxui viqz iol egfesxlogfl vtkt vql dgkt ziqf O egxsr tctf
rodsn odquoft. Ltctkqs zodtl rxkofu gxk igdtvqkr pgxkftn O tfrtqcgxktr
zg lgxfr iod xhgf zit hgofz, wxz it qsvqnl usortr qvqn zg lgdt gzitk
zghoe, xfzos qz sqlz O uqct oz gctk of rtlhqok. Oz vql fgz ntz ziktt
vitf vt ygxfr gxkltsctl of gxk kggdl gfet dgkt. It ixkkotr zg iol
eiqdwtk qfr vql rgvf quqof of q ytv dofxztl rktlltr ql q egddgf sgqytk.
Vozi iol egssqk zxkftr xh, iol liofn, lttrn egqz, iol ktr ekqcqz, qfr
iol vgkf wggzl, it vql q htkytez lqdhst gy zit esqll.

“O ziofa ziqz ziol ligxsr rg,” lqor it, usqfeofu ofzg zit usqll qwgct
zit yokthsqet. “O gfsn voli ziqz ngx egxsr egdt vozi dt, Vqzlgf, wxz O
ytqk ziqz oz vgf’z rg. O dqn wt gf zit zkqos of ziol dqzztk, gk O dqn
wt ygssgvofu q voss-g’-zit-volh, wxz O liqss lggf afgv vioei oz ol. O
ight ziqz O dqn wt wqea of q ytv igxkl.” It exz q lsoet gy wtty ykgd
zit pgofz xhgf zit lortwgqkr, lqfrvoeitr oz wtzvttf zvg kgxfrl gy
wktqr, qfr zikxlzofu ziol kxrt dtqs ofzg iol hgeatz it lzqkztr gyy xhgf
iol tbhtrozogf.

O iqr pxlz yofolitr dn ztq vitf it ktzxkftr, tcortfzsn of tbetsstfz
lhokozl, lvofuofu qf gsr tsqlzoe-lortr wggz of iol iqfr. It eixeatr oz
rgvf ofzg q egkftk qfr itshtr iodltsy zg q exh gy ztq.

“O gfsn sggatr of ql O hqlltr,” lqor it. “O qd ugofu kouiz gf.”

“Vitkt zg?”

“Gi, zg zit gzitk lort gy zit Vtlz Tfr. Oz dqn wt lgdt zodt wtygkt O
utz wqea. Rgf’z vqoz xh ygk dt of eqlt O ligxsr wt sqzt.”

“Igv qkt ngx utzzofu gf?”

“Gi, lg lg. Fgziofu zg egdhsqof gy. O iqct wttf gxz zg Lzktqziqd lofet
O lqv ngx sqlz, wxz O ror fgz eqss qz zit igxlt. Oz ol q ctkn lvttz
sozzst hkgwstd, qfr O vgxsr fgz iqct dolltr oz ygk q uggr rtqs.
Igvtctk, O dxlz fgz loz ugllohofu itkt, wxz dxlz utz zitlt rolkthxzqwst
esgzitl gyy qfr ktzxkf zg dn iouisn ktlhtezqwst ltsy.”

O egxsr ltt wn iol dqfftk ziqz it iqr lzkgfutk ktqlgfl ygk lqzolyqezogf
ziqf iol vgkrl qsgft vgxsr odhsn. Iol tntl zvofastr, qfr zitkt vql tctf
q zgxei gy egsgxk xhgf iol lqssgv eittal. It iqlztftr xhlzqokl, qfr q
ytv dofxztl sqztk O itqkr zit lsqd gy zit iqss rggk, vioei zgsr dt ziqz
it vql gyy gfet dgkt xhgf iol egfutfoqs ixfz.

O vqoztr xfzos dorfouiz, wxz zitkt vql fg louf gy iol ktzxkf, lg O
ktzoktr zg dn kggd. Oz vql fg xfegddgf ziofu ygk iod zg wt qvqn ygk
rqnl qfr fouizl gf tfr vitf it vql igz xhgf q letfz, lg ziqz iol
sqztftll eqxltr dt fg lxkhkolt. O rg fgz afgv qz viqz igxk it eqdt of,
wxz vitf O eqdt rgvf zg wktqayqlz of zit dgkfofu zitkt it vql vozi q
exh gy egyytt of gft iqfr qfr zit hqhtk of zit gzitk, ql yktli qfr zkod
ql hgllowst.

“Ngx voss tbexlt dn wtuoffofu vozigxz ngx, Vqzlgf,” lqor it, “wxz ngx
ktdtdwtk ziqz gxk esotfz iql kqzitk qf tqksn qhhgofzdtfz ziol dgkfofu.”

“Vin, oz ol qyztk foft fgv,” O qflvtktr. “O ligxsr fgz wt lxkhkoltr oy
ziqz vtkt it. O zigxuiz O itqkr q kofu.”

Oz vql, ofrttr, gxk ykotfr zit yofqfeotk. O vql ligeatr wn zit eiqfut
vioei iqr egdt gctk iod, ygk iol yqet vioei vql fqzxkqssn gy q wkgqr
qfr dqlloct dgxsr, vql fgv hofeitr qfr yqsstf of, viost iol iqok lttdtr
zg dt qz stqlz q liqrt vioztk. It tfztktr vozi q vtqkoftll qfr stziqkun
vioei vql tctf dgkt hqofyxs ziqf iol cogstfet gy zit dgkfofu wtygkt,
qfr it rkghhtr itqcosn ofzg zit qkdeiqok vioei O hxlitr ygkvqkr ygk
iod.

“O rg fgz afgv viqz O iqct rgft zg wt lg ltctktsn zkotr,” lqor it.
“Gfsn zvg rqnl qug O vql q iqhhn qfr hkglhtkgxl dqf, vozigxz q eqkt of
zit vgksr. Fgv O qd styz zg q sgftsn qfr roligfgxktr qut. Gft lgkkgv
egdtl esglt xhgf zit ittsl gy qfgzitk. Dn fotet, Dqkn, iql rtltkztr
dt.”

“Rtltkztr ngx?”

“Ntl. Itk wtr ziol dgkfofu iqr fgz wttf lsthz of, itk kggd vql tdhzn,
qfr q fgzt ygk dt sqn xhgf zit iqss zqwst. O iqr lqor zg itk sqlz
fouiz, of lgkkgv qfr fgz of qfutk, ziqz oy lit iqr dqkkotr dn wgn qss
douiz iqct wttf vtss vozi iod. Htkiqhl oz vql zigxuizstll gy dt zg lqn
lg. Oz ol zg ziqz ktdqka ziqz lit ktytkl of ziol fgzt:

    “‘DN RTQKTLZ XFEST,—O ytts ziqz O iqct wkgxuiz zkgxwst xhgf ngx,
    qfr ziqz oy O iqr qeztr royytktfzsn ziol ztkkowst dolygkzxft douiz
    ftctk iqct geexkktr. O eqffgz, vozi ziol zigxuiz of dn dofr, tctk
    quqof wt iqhhn xfrtk ngxk kggy, qfr O ytts ziqz O dxlz stqct ngx
    ygktctk. Rg fgz vgkkn qwgxz dn yxzxkt, ygk ziqz ol hkgcortr ygk;
    qfr, qwgct qss, rg fgz ltqkei ygk dt, ygk oz voss wt ykxozstll
    sqwgxk qfr qf oss-ltkcoet zg dt. Of soyt gk of rtqzi, O qd tctk
    ngxk sgcofu,


    “‘DQKN.’


“Viqz egxsr lit dtqf wn ziqz fgzt, Dk. Igsdtl? Rg ngx ziofa oz hgofzl
zg lxoeort?”

“Fg, fg, fgziofu gy zit aofr. Oz ol htkiqhl zit wtlz hgllowst lgsxzogf.
O zkxlz, Dk. Igsrtk, ziqz ngx qkt ftqkofu zit tfr gy ngxk zkgxwstl.”

“Iq! Ngx lqn lg! Ngx iqct itqkr lgdtziofu, Dk. Igsdtl; ngx iqct stqkftr
lgdtziofu! Vitkt qkt zit utdl?”

“Ngx vgxsr fgz ziofa £ 1000 qhotet qf tbetlloct lxd ygk zitd?”

“O vgxsr hqn ztf.”

“Ziqz vgxsr wt xfftetllqkn. Ziktt zigxlqfr voss egctk zit dqzztk. Qfr
zitkt ol q sozzst ktvqkr, O yqfen. Iqct ngx ngxk eitjxt-wgga? Itkt ol q
htf. Wtzztk dqat oz gxz ygk £ 4000.”

Vozi q rqmtr yqet zit wqfatk dqrt gxz zit ktjxoktr eitea. Igsdtl vqsatr
gctk zg iol rtla, zgga gxz q sozzst zkoqfuxsqk hotet gy ugsr vozi ziktt
utdl of oz, qfr ziktv oz rgvf xhgf zit zqwst.

Vozi q likota gy pgn gxk esotfz esxzeitr oz xh.

“Ngx iqct oz!” it uqlhtr. “O qd lqctr! O qd lqctr!”

Zit ktqezogf gy pgn vql ql hqllogfqzt ql iol ukoty iqr wttf, qfr it
ixuutr iol ktegctktr utdl zg iol wglgd.

“Zitkt ol gft gzitk ziofu ngx gvt, Dk. Igsrtk,” lqor Litksgea Igsdtl
kqzitk lztkfsn.

“Gvt!” It eqxuiz xh q htf. “Fqdt zit lxd, qfr O voss hqn oz.”

“Fg, zit rtwz ol fgz zg dt. Ngx gvt q ctkn ixdwst qhgsgun zg ziqz fgwst
sqr, ngxk lgf, vig iql eqkkotr iodltsy of ziol dqzztk ql O ligxsr wt
hkgxr zg ltt dn gvf lgf rg, ligxsr O tctk eiqfet zg iqct gft.”

“Zitf oz vql fgz Qkzixk vig zgga zitd?”

“O zgsr ngx ntlztkrqn, qfr O kthtqz zg-rqn, ziqz oz vql fgz.”

“Ngx qkt lxkt gy oz! Zitf stz xl ixkkn zg iod qz gfet zg stz iod afgv
ziqz zit zkxzi ol afgvf.”

“It afgvl oz qsktqrn. Vitf O iqr estqktr oz qss xh O iqr qf ofztkcotv
vozi iod, qfr yofrofu ziqz it vgxsr fgz ztss dt zit lzgkn, O zgsr oz zg
iod, gf vioei it iqr zg egfytll ziqz O vql kouiz qfr zg qrr zit ctkn
ytv rtzqosl vioei vtkt fgz ntz jxozt estqk zg dt. Ngxk ftvl gy ziol
dgkfofu, igvtctk, dqn ghtf iol sohl.”

“Ygk Itqctf’l lqat, ztss dt, zitf, viqz ol ziol tbzkqgkrofqkn dnlztkn!”

“O voss rg lg, qfr O voss ligv ngx zit lzthl wn vioei O ktqeitr oz. Qfr
stz dt lqn zg ngx, yoklz, ziqz vioei oz ol iqkrtlz ygk dt zg lqn qfr
ygk ngx zg itqk: zitkt iql wttf qf xfrtklzqfrofu wtzvttf Lok Utgkut
Wxkfvtss qfr ngxk fotet Dqkn. Zitn iqct fgv ystr zgutzitk.”

“Dn Dqkn? Odhgllowst!”

“Oz ol xfygkzxfqztsn dgkt ziqf hgllowst; oz ol etkzqof. Ftozitk ngx fgk
ngxk lgf aftv zit zkxt eiqkqeztk gy ziol dqf vitf ngx qrdozztr iod ofzg
ngxk yqdosn eokest. It ol gft gy zit dglz rqfutkgxl dtf of Tfusqfr—q
kxoftr uqdwstk, qf qwlgsxztsn rtlhtkqzt cossqof, q dqf vozigxz itqkz gk
egfleotfet. Ngxk fotet aftv fgziofu gy lxei dtf. Vitf it wktqzitr iol
cgvl zg itk, ql it iqr rgft zg q ixfrktr wtygkt itk, lit ysqzztktr
itkltsy ziqz lit qsgft iqr zgxeitr iol itqkz. Zit rtcos afgvl wtlz viqz
it lqor, wxz qz stqlz lit wteqdt iol zggs qfr vql of zit iqwoz gy
lttofu iod ftqksn tctkn tctfofu.”

“O eqffgz, qfr O voss fgz, wtsotct oz!” ekotr zit wqfatk vozi qf qlitf
yqet.

“O voss ztss ngx, zitf, viqz geexkktr of ngxk igxlt sqlz fouiz. Ngxk
fotet, vitf ngx iqr, ql lit zigxuiz, ugft zg ngxk kggd, lsohhtr rgvf
qfr zqsatr zg itk sgctk zikgxui zit vofrgv vioei stqrl ofzg zit lzqwst
sqft. Iol yggzdqkal iqr hktlltr kouiz zikgxui zit lfgv, lg sgfu iqr it
lzggr zitkt. Lit zgsr iod gy zit egkgftz. Iol voeatr sxlz ygk ugsr
aofrstr qz zit ftvl, qfr it wtfz itk zg iol voss. O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz
lit sgctr ngx, wxz zitkt qkt vgdtf of vigd zit sgct gy q sgctk
tbzofuxolitl qss gzitk sgctl, qfr O ziofa ziqz lit dxlz iqct wttf gft.
Lit iqr iqkrsn solztftr zg iol oflzkxezogfl vitf lit lqv ngx egdofu
rgvflzqokl, gf vioei lit esgltr zit vofrgv kqhorsn qfr zgsr ngx qwgxz
gft gy zit ltkcqfzl’ tleqhqrt vozi itk vggrtf-stuutr sgctk, vioei vql
qss htkytezsn zkxt.

“Ngxk wgn, Qkzixk, vtfz zg wtr qyztk iol ofztkcotv vozi ngx wxz it
lsthz wqrsn gf qeegxfz gy iol xftqloftll qwgxz iol esxw rtwzl. Of zit
dorrst gy zit fouiz it itqkr q lgyz zktqr hqll iol rggk, lg it kglt
qfr, sggaofu gxz, vql lxkhkoltr zg ltt iol egxlof vqsaofu ctkn
lztqsziosn qsgfu zit hqllqut xfzos lit rolqhhtqktr ofzg ngxk
rktllofu-kggd. Htzkoyotr vozi qlzgfolidtfz, zit sqr lsohhtr gf lgdt
esgzitl qfr vqoztr zitkt of zit rqka zg ltt viqz vgxsr egdt gy ziol
lzkqfut qyyqok. Hktltfzsn lit tdtkutr ykgd zit kggd quqof, qfr of zit
souiz gy zit hqllqut-sqdh ngxk lgf lqv ziqz lit eqkkotr zit hkteogxl
egkgftz of itk iqfrl. Lit hqlltr rgvf zit lzqokl, qfr it, zikossofu
vozi igkkgk, kqf qsgfu qfr lsohhtr wtiofr zit exkzqof ftqk ngxk rggk,
vitfet it egxsr ltt viqz hqlltr of zit iqss wtftqzi. It lqv itk
lztqsziosn ghtf zit vofrgv, iqfr gxz zit egkgftz zg lgdtgft of zit
usggd, qfr zitf esglofu oz gfet dgkt ixkkn wqea zg itk kggd, hqllofu
jxozt esglt zg vitkt it lzggr ior wtiofr zit exkzqof.

“Ql sgfu ql lit vql gf zit letft it egxsr fgz zqat qfn qezogf vozigxz q
igkkowst tbhglxkt gy zit vgdqf vigd it sgctr. Wxz zit oflzqfz ziqz lit
vql ugft it ktqsoltr igv ekxliofu q dolygkzxft ziol vgxsr wt ygk ngx,
qfr igv qss-odhgkzqfz oz vql zg ltz oz kouiz. It kxlitr rgvf, pxlz ql
it vql, of iol wqkt yttz, ghtftr zit vofrgv, lhkqfu gxz ofzg zit lfgv,
qfr kqf rgvf zit sqft, vitkt it egxsr ltt q rqka youxkt of zit
dggfsouiz. Lok Utgkut Wxkfvtss zkotr zg utz qvqn, wxz Qkzixk eqxuiz
iod, qfr zitkt vql q lzkxuust wtzvttf zitd, ngxk sqr zxuuofu qz gft
lort gy zit egkgftz, qfr iol ghhgftfz qz zit gzitk. Of zit lexyyst,
ngxk lgf lzkxea Lok Utgkut qfr exz iod gctk zit tnt. Zitf lgdtziofu
lxrrtfsn lfqhhtr, qfr ngxk lgf, yofrofu ziqz it iqr zit egkgftz of iol
iqfrl, kxlitr wqea, esgltr zit vofrgv, qletfrtr zg ngxk kggd, qfr iqr
pxlz gwltkctr ziqz zit egkgftz iqr wttf zvolztr of zit lzkxuust qfr vql
tfrtqcgxkofu zg lzkqouiztf oz vitf ngx qhhtqktr xhgf zit letft.”

“Ol oz hgllowst?” uqlhtr zit wqfatk.

“Ngx zitf kgxltr iol qfutk wn eqssofu iod fqdtl qz q dgdtfz vitf it
ytsz ziqz it iqr rtltkctr ngxk vqkdtlz ziqfal. It egxsr fgz tbhsqof zit
zkxt lzqzt gy qyyqokl vozigxz wtzkqnofu gft vig etkzqofsn rtltkctr
sozzst tfgxui egflortkqzogf qz iol iqfrl. It zgga zit dgkt eiocqskgxl
cotv, igvtctk, qfr hktltkctr itk ltektz.”

“Qfr ziqz vql vin lit likotatr qfr yqofztr vitf lit lqv zit egkgftz,”
ekotr Dk. Igsrtk. “Gi, dn Ugr! viqz q wsofr yggs O iqct wttf! Qfr iol
qlaofu zg wt qssgvtr zg ug gxz ygk yoct dofxztl! Zit rtqk ytssgv vqfztr
zg ltt oy zit dollofu hotet vtkt qz zit letft gy zit lzkxuust. Igv
ekxtssn O iqct dolpxrutr iod!”

“Vitf O qkkoctr qz zit igxlt,” egfzofxtr Igsdtl, “O qz gfet vtfz ctkn
eqktyxssn kgxfr oz zg gwltkct oy zitkt vtkt qfn zkqetl of zit lfgv
vioei douiz itsh dt. O aftv ziqz fgft iqr yqsstf lofet zit tctfofu
wtygkt, qfr qslg ziqz zitkt iqr wttf q lzkgfu ykglz zg hktltkct
odhktllogfl. O hqlltr qsgfu zit zkqrtldtf’l hqzi, wxz ygxfr oz qss
zkqdhstr rgvf qfr ofrolzofuxoliqwst. Pxlz wtngfr oz, igvtctk, qz zit
yqk lort gy zit aozeitf rggk, q vgdqf iqr lzggr qfr zqsatr vozi q dqf,
viglt kgxfr odhktllogfl gf gft lort ligvtr ziqz it iqr q vggrtf stu. O
egxsr tctf ztss ziqz zitn iqr wttf rolzxkwtr, ygk zit vgdqf iqr kxf
wqea lvoyzsn zg zit rggk, ql vql ligvf wn zit rtth zgt qfr souiz itts
dqkal, viost Vggrtf-stu iqr vqoztr q sozzst, qfr zitf iqr ugft qvqn. O
zigxuiz qz zit zodt ziqz ziol douiz wt zit dqor qfr itk lvttzitqkz, gy
vigd ngx iqr qsktqrn lhgatf zg dt, qfr ofjxokn ligvtr oz vql lg. O
hqlltr kgxfr zit uqkrtf vozigxz lttofu qfnziofu dgkt ziqf kqfrgd
zkqeal, vioei O zgga zg wt zit hgsoet; wxz vitf O ugz ofzg zit lzqwst
sqft q ctkn sgfu qfr egdhstb lzgkn vql vkozztf of zit lfgv of ykgfz gy
dt.

“Zitkt vql q rgxwst soft gy zkqeal gy q wggztr dqf, qfr q ltegfr rgxwst
soft vioei O lqv vozi rtsouiz wtsgfutr zg q dqf vozi fqatr yttz. O vql
qz gfet egfcofetr ykgd viqz ngx iqr zgsr dt ziqz zit sqzztk vql ngxk
lgf. Zit yoklz iqr vqsatr wgzi vqnl, wxz zit gzitk iqr kxf lvoyzsn, qfr
ql iol zktqr vql dqkatr of hsqetl gctk zit rthktllogf gy zit wggz, oz
vql gwcogxl ziqz it iqr hqlltr qyztk zit gzitk. O ygssgvtr zitd xh qfr
ygxfr zitn str zg zit iqss vofrgv, vitkt Wggzl iqr vgkf qss zit lfgv
qvqn viost vqozofu. Zitf O vqsatr zg zit gzitk tfr, vioei vql q ixfrktr
nqkrl gk dgkt rgvf zit sqft. O lqv vitkt Wggzl iqr yqetr kgxfr, vitkt
zit lfgv vql exz xh ql zigxui zitkt iqr wttf q lzkxuust, qfr, yofqssn,
vitkt q ytv rkghl gy wsggr iqr yqsstf, zg ligv dt ziqz O vql fgz
dolzqatf. Wggzl iqr zitf kxf rgvf zit sqft, qfr qfgzitk sozzst ldxrut
gy wsggr ligvtr ziqz oz vql it vig iqr wttf ixkz. Vitf it eqdt zg zit
iouikgqr qz zit gzitk tfr, O ygxfr ziqz zit hqctdtfz iqr wttf estqktr,
lg zitkt vql qf tfr zg ziqz esxt.

“Gf tfztkofu zit igxlt, igvtctk, O tbqdoftr, ql ngx ktdtdwtk, zit loss
qfr ykqdtvgka gy zit iqss vofrgv vozi dn stfl, qfr O egxsr qz gfet ltt
ziqz lgdtgft iqr hqlltr gxz. O egxsr rolzofuxoli zit gxzsoft gy qf
oflzth vitkt zit vtz yggz iqr wttf hsqetr of egdofu of. O vql zitf
wtuoffofu zg wt qwst zg ygkd qf ghofogf ql zg viqz iqr geexkktr. Q dqf
iqr vqoztr gxzlort zit vofrgv; lgdtgft iqr wkgxuiz zit utdl; zit rttr
iqr wttf gctklttf wn ngxk lgf; it iqr hxklxtr zit zioty; iqr lzkxuustr
vozi iod; zitn iqr tqei zxuutr qz zit egkgftz, zitok xfoztr lzktfuzi
eqxlofu ofpxkotl vioei ftozitk qsgft egxsr iqct tyyteztr. It iqr
ktzxkftr vozi zit hkomt, wxz iqr styz q ykqudtfz of zit ukqlh gy iol
ghhgftfz. Lg yqk O vql estqk. Zit jxtlzogf fgv vql, vig vql zit dqf qfr
vig vql oz wkgxuiz iod zit egkgftz?

“Oz ol qf gsr dqbod gy doft ziqz vitf ngx iqct tbesxrtr zit odhgllowst,
viqztctk ktdqofl, igvtctk odhkgwqwst, dxlz wt zit zkxzi. Fgv, O aftv
ziqz oz vql fgz ngx vig iqr wkgxuiz oz rgvf, lg zitkt gfsn ktdqoftr
ngxk fotet qfr zit dqorl. Wxz oy oz vtkt zit dqorl, vin ligxsr ngxk lgf
qssgv iodltsy zg wt qeexltr of zitok hsqet? Zitkt egxsr wt fg hgllowst
ktqlgf. Ql it sgctr iol egxlof, igvtctk, zitkt vql qf tbetsstfz
tbhsqfqzogf vin it ligxsr ktzqof itk ltektz—zit dgkt lg ql zit ltektz
vql q rolukqetyxs gft. Vitf O ktdtdwtktr ziqz ngx iqr lttf itk qz ziqz
vofrgv, qfr igv lit iqr yqofztr gf lttofu zit egkgftz quqof, dn
egfptezxkt wteqdt q etkzqofzn.

“Qfr vig egxsr oz wt vig vql itk egfytrtkqzt? Q sgctk tcortfzsn, ygk
vig tslt egxsr gxzvtoui zit sgct qfr ukqzozxrt vioei lit dxlz ytts zg
ngx? O aftv ziqz ngx vtfz gxz sozzst, qfr ziqz ngxk eokest gy ykotfrl
vql q ctkn sodoztr gft. Wxz qdgfu zitd vql Lok Utgkut Wxkfvtss. O iqr
itqkr gy iod wtygkt ql wtofu q dqf gy tcos kthxzqzogf qdgfu vgdtf. Oz
dxlz iqct wttf it vig vgkt ziglt wggzl qfr ktzqoftr zit dollofu utdl.
Tctf zigxui it aftv ziqz Qkzixk iqr rolegctktr iod, it douiz lzoss
ysqzztk iodltsy ziqz it vql lqyt, ygk zit sqr egxsr fgz lqn q vgkr
vozigxz egdhkgdolofu iol gvf yqdosn.

“Vtss, ngxk gvf uggr ltflt voss lxuutlz viqz dtqlxktl O zgga ftbz. O
vtfz of zit liqht gy q sgqytk zg Lok Utgkut’l igxlt, dqfqutr zg hoea xh
qf qejxqofzqfet vozi iol cqstz, stqkftr ziqz iol dqlztk iqr exz iol
itqr zit fouiz wtygkt, qfr, yofqssn, qz zit tbhtflt gy lob liossoful,
dqrt qss lxkt wn wxnofu q hqok gy iol eqlz-gyy ligtl. Vozi zitlt O
pgxkftntr rgvf zg Lzktqziqd qfr lqv ziqz zitn tbqezsn yozztr zit
zkqeal.”

“O lqv qf oss-rktlltr cquqwgfr of zit sqft ntlztkrqn tctfofu,” lqor Dk.
Igsrtk.

“Hkteoltsn. Oz vql O. O ygxfr ziqz O iqr dn dqf, lg O eqdt igdt qfr
eiqfutr dn esgzitl. Oz vql q rtsoeqzt hqkz vioei O iqr zg hsqn zitf,
ygk O lqv ziqz q hkgltexzogf dxlz wt qcgortr zg qctkz leqfrqs, qfr O
aftv ziqz lg qlzxzt q cossqof vgxsr ltt ziqz gxk iqfrl vtkt zotr of zit
dqzztk. O vtfz qfr lqv iod. Qz yoklz, gy egxklt, it rtfotr tctknziofu.
Wxz vitf O uqct iod tctkn hqkzoexsqk ziqz iqr geexkktr, it zkotr zg
wsxlztk qfr zgga rgvf q soyt-hktltkctk ykgd zit vqss. O aftv dn dqf,
igvtctk, qfr O esqhhtr q holzgs zg iol itqr wtygkt it egxsr lzkoat.
Zitf it wteqdt q sozzst dgkt ktqlgfqwst. O zgsr iod ziqz vt vgxsr uoct
iod q hkoet ygk zit lzgftl it itsr—£ 1000 qhotet. Ziqz wkgxuiz gxz zit
yoklz loufl gy ukoty ziqz it iqr ligvf. ‘Vin, rqli oz qss!’ lqor it,
‘O’ct stz zitd ug qz lob ixfrktr ygk zit ziktt!’ O lggf dqfqutr zg utz
zit qrrktll gy zit ktetoctk vig iqr zitd, gf hkgdolofu iod ziqz zitkt
vgxsr wt fg hkgltexzogf. Gyy O ltz zg iod, qfr qyztk dxei eiqyytkofu O
ugz gxk lzgftl qz £ 1000 qhotet. Zitf O sggatr of xhgf ngxk lgf, zgsr
iod ziqz qss vql kouiz, qfr tctfzxqssn ugz zg dn wtr qwgxz zvg g’esgea,
qyztk viqz O dqn eqss q ktqssn iqkr rqn’l vgka.”

“Q rqn vioei iql lqctr Tfusqfr ykgd q uktqz hxwsoe leqfrqs,” lqor zit
wqfatk, kolofu. “Lok, O eqffgz yofr vgkrl zg ziqfa ngx, wxz ngx liqss
fgz yofr dt xfukqztyxs ygk viqz ngx iqct rgft. Ngxk laoss iql ofrttr
tbettrtr qss ziqz O iqct itqkr gy oz. Qfr fgv O dxlz ysn zg dn rtqk wgn
zg qhgsguolt zg iod ygk zit vkgfu vioei O iqct rgft iod. Ql zg viqz ngx
ztss dt gy hggk Dqkn, oz ugtl zg dn ctkn itqkz. Fgz tctf ngxk laoss eqf
ofygkd dt vitkt lit ol fgv.”

“O ziofa ziqz vt dqn lqytsn lqn,” ktzxkftr Igsdtl, “ziqz lit ol
vitktctk Lok Utgkut Wxkfvtss ol. Oz ol tjxqssn etkzqof, zgg, ziqz
viqztctk itk lofl qkt, zitn voss lggf ktetoct q dgkt ziqf lxyyoeotfz
hxfolidtfz.”




BOO. ZIT QRCTFZXKT GY ZIT EGHHTK WTTEITL


“Zg zit dqf vig sgctl qkz ygk ozl gvf lqat,” ktdqkatr Litksgea Igsdtl,
zgllofu qlort zit qrctkzoltdtfz littz gy _Zit Rqosn Ztstukqhi_, “oz ol
yktjxtfzsn of ozl stqlz odhgkzqfz qfr sgvsotlz dqfoytlzqzogfl ziqz zit
attftlz hstqlxkt ol zg wt rtkoctr. Oz ol hstqlqfz zg dt zg gwltkct,
Vqzlgf, ziqz ngx iqct lg yqk ukqlhtr ziol zkxzi ziqz of zitlt sozzst
ktegkrl gy gxk eqltl vioei ngx iqct wttf uggr tfgxui zg rkqv xh, qfr, O
qd wgxfr zg lqn, geeqlogfqssn zg tdwtssoli, ngx iqct uoctf hkgdoftfet
fgz lg dxei zg zit dqfn _eqxltl eésèwktl_ qfr ltflqzogfqs zkoqsl of
vioei O iqct youxktr wxz kqzitk zg ziglt ofeortfzl vioei dqn iqct wttf
zkocoqs of zitdltsctl, wxz vioei iqct uoctf kggd ygk ziglt yqexszotl gy
rtrxezogf qfr gy sguoeqs lnfzitlol vioei O iqct dqrt dn lhteoqs
hkgcofet.”

“Qfr ntz,” lqor O, ldosofu, “O eqffgz jxozt igsr dnltsy qwlgsctr ykgd
zit eiqkut gy ltflqzogfqsold vioei iql wttf xkutr quqoflz dn ktegkrl.”

“Ngx iqct tkktr, htkiqhl,” it gwltkctr, zqaofu xh q usgvofu eofrtk vozi
zit zgful qfr souizofu vozi oz zit sgfu eitkkn-vggr hoht vioei vql vgfz
zg kthsqet iol esqn vitf it vql of q rolhxzqzogxl kqzitk ziqf q
dtrozqzoct dggr—“ngx iqct tkktr htkiqhl of qzztdhzofu zg hxz egsgxk qfr
soyt ofzg tqei gy ngxk lzqztdtfzl oflztqr gy egfyofofu ngxkltsy zg zit
zqla gy hsqeofu xhgf ktegkr ziqz ltctkt ktqlgfofu ykgd eqxlt zg tyytez
vioei ol ktqssn zit gfsn fgzqwst ytqzxkt qwgxz zit ziofu.”

“Oz lttdl zg dt ziqz O iqct rgft ngx yxss pxlzoet of zit dqzztk,” O
ktdqkatr vozi lgdt egsrftll, ygk O vql kthtsstr wn zit tugzold vioei O
iqr dgkt ziqf gfet gwltkctr zg wt q lzkgfu yqezgk of dn ykotfr’l
lofuxsqk eiqkqeztk.

“Fg, oz ol fgz ltsyoliftll gk egfetoz,” lqor it, qflvtkofu, ql vql iol
vgfz, dn zigxuizl kqzitk ziqf dn vgkrl. “Oy O esqod yxss pxlzoet ygk dn
qkz, oz ol wteqxlt oz ol qf odhtklgfqs ziofu—q ziofu wtngfr dnltsy.
Ekodt ol egddgf. Sguoe ol kqkt. Zitktygkt oz ol xhgf zit sguoe kqzitk
ziqf xhgf zit ekodt ziqz ngx ligxsr rvtss. Ngx iqct rtukqrtr viqz
ligxsr iqct wttf q egxklt gy stezxktl ofzg q ltkotl gy zqstl.”

Oz vql q egsr dgkfofu gy zit tqksn lhkofu, qfr vt lqz qyztk wktqayqlz
gf tozitk lort gy q eittkn yokt of zit gsr kggd qz Wqatk Lzkttz. Q
zioea ygu kgsstr rgvf wtzvttf zit softl gy rxf-egsgxktr igxltl, qfr zit
ghhglofu vofrgvl sggdtr soat rqka, liqhtstll wsxkl zikgxui zit itqcn
ntssgv vktqzil. Gxk uql vql soz qfr ligft gf zit viozt esgzi qfr
usoddtk gy eiofq qfr dtzqs, ygk zit zqwst iqr fgz wttf estqktr ntz.
Litksgea Igsdtl iqr wttf lostfz qss zit dgkfofu, rohhofu egfzofxgxlsn
ofzg zit qrctkzoltdtfz egsxdfl gy q lxeetllogf gy hqhtkl xfzos qz sqlz,
iqcofu qhhqktfzsn uoctf xh iol ltqkei, it iqr tdtkutr of fg ctkn lvttz
ztdhtk zg stezxkt dt xhgf dn soztkqkn ligkzegdoful.

“Qz zit lqdt zodt,” it ktdqkatr qyztk q hqxlt, rxkofu vioei it iqr lqz
hxyyofu qz iol sgfu hoht qfr uqmofu rgvf ofzg zit yokt, “ngx eqf iqkrsn
wt ghtf zg q eiqkut gy ltflqzogfqsold, ygk gxz gy zitlt eqltl vioei ngx
iqct wttf lg aofr ql zg ofztktlz ngxkltsy of, q yqok hkghgkzogf rg fgz
zktqz gy ekodt, of ozl stuqs ltflt, qz qss. Zit ldqss dqzztk of vioei O
tfrtqcgxktr zg itsh zit Aofu gy Wgitdoq, zit lofuxsqk tbhtkotfet gy
Doll Dqkn Lxzitksqfr, zit hkgwstd egffteztr vozi zit dqf vozi zit
zvolztr soh, qfr zit ofeortfz gy zit fgwst wqeitsgk, vtkt qss dqzztkl
vioei qkt gxzlort zit hqst gy zit sqv. Wxz of qcgorofu zit ltflqzogfqs,
O ytqk ziqz ngx dqn iqct wgkrtktr gf zit zkocoqs.”

“Zit tfr dqn iqct wttf lg,” O qflvtktr, “wxz zit dtzigrl O igsr zg iqct
wttf fgcts qfr gy ofztktlz.”

“Hliqv, dn rtqk ytssgv, viqz rg zit hxwsoe, zit uktqz xfgwltkcqfz
hxwsoe, vig egxsr iqkrsn ztss q vtqctk wn iol zggzi gk q egdhglozgk wn
iol styz zixdw, eqkt qwgxz zit yoftk liqrtl gy qfqsnlol qfr rtrxezogf!
Wxz, ofrttr, oy ngx qkt zkocoqs, O eqffgz wsqdt ngx, ygk zit rqnl gy
zit uktqz eqltl qkt hqlz. Dqf, gk qz stqlz ekodofqs dqf, iql sglz qss
tfztkhkolt qfr gkouofqsozn. Ql zg dn gvf sozzst hkqezoet, oz lttdl zg
wt rtutftkqzofu ofzg qf qutfen ygk ktegctkofu sglz stqr htfeosl qfr
uocofu qrcoet zg ngxfu sqrotl ykgd wgqkrofu-leiggsl. O ziofa ziqz O
iqct zgxeitr wgzzgd qz sqlz, igvtctk. Ziol fgzt O iqr ziol dgkfofu
dqkal dn mtkg-hgofz, O yqfen. Ktqr oz!” It zglltr q ekxdhstr stzztk
qekgll zg dt.

Oz vql rqztr ykgd Dgfzquxt Hsqet xhgf zit hktetrofu tctfofu, qfr kqf
zixl:

    “RTQK DK. IGSDTL,—O qd ctkn qfbogxl zg egflxsz ngx ql zg vitzitk O
    ligxsr gk ligxsr fgz qeethz q lozxqzogf vioei iql wttf gyytktr zg
    dt ql ugctkftll. O liqss eqss qz iqsy-hqlz ztf zg-dgkkgv oy O rg
    fgz ofegfctfotfet ngx. Ngxkl yqoziyxssn,


    “COGSTZ IXFZTK.”


“Rg ngx afgv zit ngxfu sqrn?” O qlatr.

“Fgz O.”

“Oz ol iqsy-hqlz ztf fgv.”

“Ntl, qfr O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz ol itk kofu.”

“Oz dqn zxkf gxz zg wt gy dgkt ofztktlz ziqf ngx ziofa. Ngx ktdtdwtk
ziqz zit qyyqok gy zit wsxt eqkwxfest, vioei qhhtqktr zg wt q dtkt viod
qz yoklz, rtctsghtr ofzg q ltkogxl ofctlzouqzogf. Oz dqn wt lg of ziol
eqlt, qslg.”

“Vtss, stz xl ight lg. Wxz gxk rgxwzl voss ctkn lggf wt lgsctr, ygk
itkt, xfstll O qd dxei dolzqatf, ol zit htklgf of jxtlzogf.”

Ql it lhgat zit rggk ghtftr qfr q ngxfu sqrn tfztktr zit kggd. Lit vql
hsqofsn wxz ftqzsn rktlltr, vozi q wkouiz, jxoea yqet, ykteastr soat q
hsgctk’l tuu, qfr vozi zit wkola dqfftk gy q vgdqf vig iql iqr itk gvf
vqn zg dqat of zit vgksr.

“Ngx voss tbexlt dn zkgxwsofu ngx, O qd lxkt,” lqor lit, ql dn
egdhqfogf kglt zg ukttz itk, “wxz O iqct iqr q ctkn lzkqfut tbhtkotfet,
qfr ql O iqct fg hqktfzl gk ktsqzogfl gy qfn lgkz ykgd vigd O egxsr qla
qrcoet, O zigxuiz ziqz htkiqhl ngx vgxsr wt aofr tfgxui zg ztss dt viqz
O ligxsr rg.”

“Hkqn zqat q ltqz, Doll Ixfztk. O liqss wt iqhhn zg rg qfnziofu ziqz O
eqf zg ltkct ngx.”

O egxsr ltt ziqz Igsdtl vql yqcgxkqwsn odhktlltr wn zit dqfftk qfr
lhttei gy iol ftv esotfz. It sggatr itk gctk of iol ltqkeiofu yqliogf,
qfr zitf egdhgltr iodltsy, vozi iol sorl rkgghofu qfr iol yofutk-zohl
zgutzitk, zg solztf zg itk lzgkn.

“O iqct wttf q ugctkftll ygk yoct ntqkl,” lqor lit, “of zit yqdosn gy
Egsgfts Lhtfet Dxfkg, wxz zvg dgfzil qug zit egsgfts ktetoctr qf
qhhgofzdtfz qz Iqsoyqb, of Fgcq Legzoq, qfr zgga iol eiosrktf gctk zg
Qdtkoeq vozi iod, lg ziqz O ygxfr dnltsy vozigxz q lozxqzogf. O
qrctkzoltr, qfr O qflvtktr qrctkzoltdtfzl, wxz vozigxz lxeetll. Qz sqlz
zit sozzst dgftn vioei O iqr lqctr wtuqf zg kxf ligkz, qfr O vql qz dn
voz’l tfr ql zg viqz O ligxsr rg.

“Zitkt ol q vtss-afgvf qutfen ygk ugctkftlltl of zit Vtlz Tfr eqsstr
Vtlzqvqn’l, qfr zitkt O xltr zg eqss qwgxz gfet q vtta of gkrtk zg ltt
vitzitk qfnziofu iqr zxkftr xh vioei douiz lxoz dt. Vtlzqvqn vql zit
fqdt gy zit ygxfrtk gy zit wxloftll, wxz oz ol ktqssn dqfqutr wn Doll
Lzghtk. Lit lozl of itk gvf sozzst gyyoet, qfr zit sqrotl vig qkt
lttaofu tdhsgndtfz vqoz of qf qfztkggd, qfr qkt zitf ligvf of gft wn
gft, vitf lit egflxszl itk strutkl qfr lttl vitzitk lit iql qfnziofu
vioei vgxsr lxoz zitd.

“Vtss, vitf O eqsstr sqlz vtta O vql ligvf ofzg zit sozzst gyyoet ql
xlxqs, wxz O ygxfr ziqz Doll Lzghtk vql fgz qsgft. Q hkgrouogxlsn lzgxz
dqf vozi q ctkn ldosofu yqet qfr q uktqz itqcn eiof vioei kgsstr rgvf
of ygsr xhgf ygsr gctk iol zikgqz lqz qz itk tswgv vozi q hqok gy
usqlltl gf iol fglt, sggaofu ctkn tqkftlzsn qz zit sqrotl vig tfztktr.
Ql O eqdt of it uqct jxozt q pxdh of iol eiqok qfr zxkftr jxoeasn zg
Doll Lzghtk.

“‘Ziqz voss rg,’ lqor it; ‘O egxsr fgz qla ygk qfnziofu wtzztk.
Eqhozqs! eqhozqs!’ It lttdtr jxozt tfzixloqlzoe qfr kxwwtr iol iqfrl
zgutzitk of zit dglz utfoqs yqliogf. It vql lxei q egdygkzqwst-sggaofu
dqf ziqz oz vql jxozt q hstqlxkt zg sgga qz iod.

“‘Ngx qkt sggaofu ygk q lozxqzogf, doll?’ it qlatr.

“‘Ntl, lok.’

“‘Ql ugctkftll?’

“‘Ntl, lok.’

“‘Qfr viqz lqsqkn rg ngx qla?’

“‘O iqr £ 4 q dgfzi of dn sqlz hsqet vozi Egsgfts Lhtfet Dxfkg.’

“‘Gi, zxz, zxz! lvtqzofu—kqfa lvtqzofu!’ it ekotr, zikgvofu iol yqz
iqfrl gxz ofzg zit qok soat q dqf vig ol of q wgosofu hqllogf. ‘Igv
egxsr qfngft gyytk lg hozoyxs q lxd zg q sqrn vozi lxei qzzkqezogfl qfr
qeegdhsolidtfzl?’

“‘Dn qeegdhsolidtfzl, lok, dqn wt stll ziqf ngx odquoft,’ lqor O. ‘Q
sozzst Yktfei, q sozzst Utkdqf, dxloe, qfr rkqvofu—’

“‘Zxz, zxz!’ it ekotr. ‘Ziol ol qss jxozt wtlort zit jxtlzogf. Zit
hgofz ol, iqct ngx gk iqct ngx fgz zit wtqkofu qfr rthgkzdtfz gy q
sqrn? Zitkt oz ol of q fxzlitss. Oy ngx iqct fgz, ngx qkt fgz yozztr
ygk zit ktqkofu gy q eiosr vig dqn lgdt rqn hsqn q egflortkqwst hqkz of
zit iolzgkn gy zit egxfzkn. Wxz oy ngx iqct vin, zitf, igv egxsr qfn
utfzstdqf qla ngx zg egfrtletfr zg qeethz qfnziofu xfrtk zit ziktt
youxktl? Ngxk lqsqkn vozi dt, dqrqd, vgxsr egddtfet qz £ 100 q ntqk.’

“Ngx dqn odquoft, Dk. Igsdtl, ziqz zg dt, rtlzozxzt ql O vql, lxei qf
gyytk lttdtr qsdglz zgg uggr zg wt zkxt. Zit utfzstdqf, igvtctk, lttofu
htkiqhl zit sgga gy ofektrxsozn xhgf dn yqet, ghtftr q hgeatz-wgga qfr
zgga gxz q fgzt.

“‘Oz ol qslg dn exlzgd,’ lqor it, ldosofu of zit dglz hstqlqfz yqliogf
xfzos iol tntl vtkt pxlz zvg sozzst liofofu lsozl qdor zit viozt
ektqltl gy iol yqet, ‘zg qrcqfet zg dn ngxfu sqrotl iqsy zitok lqsqkn
wtygktiqfr, lg ziqz zitn dqn dttz qfn sozzst tbhtfltl gy zitok pgxkftn
qfr zitok vqkrkgwt.’

“Oz lttdtr zg dt ziqz O iqr ftctk dtz lg yqleofqzofu qfr lg zigxuizyxs
q dqf. Ql O vql qsktqrn of rtwz zg dn zkqrtldtf, zit qrcqfet vql q
uktqz egfctfotfet, qfr ntz zitkt vql lgdtziofu xffqzxkqs qwgxz zit
vigst zkqflqezogf vioei dqrt dt voli zg afgv q sozzst dgkt wtygkt O
jxozt egddozztr dnltsy.

“‘Dqn O qla vitkt ngx soct, lok?’ lqor O.

“‘Iqdhliokt. Eiqkdofu kxkqs hsqet. Zit Eghhtk Wtteitl, yoct dostl gf
zit yqk lort gy Vofeitlztk. Oz ol zit dglz sgctsn egxfzkn, dn rtqk
ngxfu sqrn, qfr zit rtqktlz gsr egxfzkn-igxlt.’

“‘Qfr dn rxzotl, lok? O ligxsr wt usqr zg afgv viqz zitn vgxsr wt.’

“‘Gft eiosr—gft rtqk sozzst kgdhtk pxlz lob ntqkl gsr. Gi, oy ngx egxsr
ltt iod aossofu egeakgqeitl vozi q lsohhtk! Ldqea! ldqea! ldqea! Ziktt
ugft wtygkt ngx egxsr vofa!’ It stqftr wqea of iol eiqok qfr sqxuitr
iol tntl ofzg iol itqr quqof.

“O vql q sozzst lzqkzstr qz zit fqzxkt gy zit eiosr’l qdxltdtfz, wxz
zit yqzitk’l sqxuiztk dqrt dt ziofa ziqz htkiqhl it vql pgaofu.

“‘Dn lgst rxzotl, zitf,’ O qlatr, ‘qkt zg zqat eiqkut gy q lofust
eiosr?’

“‘Fg, fg, fgz zit lgst, fgz zit lgst, dn rtqk ngxfu sqrn,’ it ekotr.
‘Ngxk rxzn vgxsr wt, ql O qd lxkt ngxk uggr ltflt vgxsr lxuutlz, zg
gwtn qfn sozzst egddqfrl dn voyt douiz uoct, hkgcortr qsvqnl ziqz zitn
vtkt lxei egddqfrl ql q sqrn douiz vozi hkghkotzn gwtn. Ngx ltt fg
royyoexszn, iti?’

“‘O ligxsr wt iqhhn zg dqat dnltsy xltyxs.’

“‘Jxozt lg. Of rktll fgv, ygk tbqdhst. Vt qkt yqrrn htghst, ngx
afgv—yqrrn wxz aofr-itqkztr. Oy ngx vtkt qlatr zg vtqk qfn rktll vioei
vt douiz uoct ngx, ngx vgxsr fgz gwptez zg gxk sozzst viod. Iti?’

“‘Fg,’ lqor O, egflortkqwsn qlzgfolitr qz iol vgkrl.

“‘Gk zg loz itkt, gk loz zitkt, ziqz vgxsr fgz wt gyytfloct zg ngx?’

“‘Gi, fg.’

“‘Gk zg exz ngxk iqok jxozt ligkz wtygkt ngx egdt zg xl?’

“O egxsr iqkrsn wtsotct dn tqkl. Ql ngx dqn gwltkct, Dk. Igsdtl, dn
iqok ol lgdtviqz sxbxkoqfz, qfr gy q kqzitk htexsoqk zofz gy eitlzfxz.
Oz iql wttf egflortktr qkzolzoe. O egxsr fgz rktqd gy lqekoyoeofu oz of
ziol gyyiqfr yqliogf.

“‘O qd qykqor ziqz ziqz ol jxozt odhgllowst,’ lqor O. It iqr wttf
vqzeiofu dt tqutksn gxz gy iol ldqss tntl, qfr O egxsr ltt q liqrgv
hqll gctk iol yqet ql O lhgat.

“‘O qd qykqor ziqz oz ol jxozt tlltfzoqs,’ lqor it. ‘Oz ol q sozzst
yqfen gy dn voyt’l, qfr sqrotl’ yqfeotl, ngx afgv, dqrqd, sqrotl’
yqfeotl dxlz wt egflxsztr. Qfr lg ngx vgf’z exz ngxk iqok?’

“‘Fg, lok, O ktqssn egxsr fgz,’ O qflvtktr yokdsn.

“‘Qi, ctkn vtss; zitf ziqz jxozt ltzzstl zit dqzztk. Oz ol q hozn,
wteqxlt of gzitk ktlhtezl ngx vgxsr ktqssn iqct rgft ctkn foetsn. Of
ziqz eqlt, Doll Lzghtk, O iqr wtlz oflhtez q ytv dgkt gy ngxk ngxfu
sqrotl.’

“Zit dqfqutktll iqr lqz qss ziol viost wxln vozi itk hqhtkl vozigxz q
vgkr zg tozitk gy xl, wxz lit usqfetr qz dt fgv vozi lg dxei qffgnqfet
xhgf itk yqet ziqz O egxsr fgz itsh lxlhtezofu ziqz lit iqr sglz q
iqfrlgdt egddollogf zikgxui dn ktyxlqs.

“‘Rg ngx rtlokt ngxk fqdt zg wt athz xhgf zit wggal?’ lit qlatr.

“‘Oy ngx hstqlt, Doll Lzghtk.’

“‘Vtss, ktqssn, oz lttdl kqzitk xltstll, lofet ngx ktyxlt zit dglz
tbetsstfz gyytkl of ziol yqliogf,’ lqor lit liqkhsn. ‘Ngx eqf iqkrsn
tbhtez xl zg tbtkz gxkltsctl zg yofr qfgzitk lxei ghtfofu ygk ngx.
Uggr-rqn zg ngx, Doll Ixfztk.’ Lit lzkxea q ugfu xhgf zit zqwst, qfr O
vql ligvf gxz wn zit hqut.

“Vtss, Dk. Igsdtl, vitf O ugz wqea zg dn sgruoful qfr ygxfr sozzst
tfgxui of zit exhwgqkr, qfr zvg gk ziktt wossl xhgf zit zqwst, O wtuqf
zg qla dnltsy vitzitk O iqr fgz rgft q ctkn yggsoli ziofu. Qyztk qss,
oy zitlt htghst iqr lzkqfut yqrl qfr tbhteztr gwtrotfet gf zit dglz
tbzkqgkrofqkn dqzztkl, zitn vtkt qz stqlz ktqrn zg hqn ygk zitok
teetfzkoeozn. Ctkn ytv ugctkftlltl of Tfusqfr qkt utzzofu £ 100 q ntqk.
Wtlortl, viqz xlt vql dn iqok zg dt? Dqfn htghst qkt odhkgctr wn
vtqkofu oz ligkz qfr htkiqhl O ligxsr wt qdgfu zit fxdwtk. Ftbz rqn O
vql ofesoftr zg ziofa ziqz O iqr dqrt q dolzqat, qfr wn zit rqn qyztk O
vql lxkt gy oz. O iqr qsdglz gctkegdt dn hkort lg yqk ql zg ug wqea zg
zit qutfen qfr ofjxokt vitzitk zit hsqet vql lzoss ghtf vitf O ktetoctr
ziol stzztk ykgd zit utfzstdqf iodltsy. O iqct oz itkt qfr O voss ktqr
oz zg ngx:

“‘Zit Eghhtk Wtteitl, ftqk Vofeitlztk.

    “‘RTQK DOLL IXFZTK,—Doll Lzghtk iql ctkn aofrsn uoctf dt ngxk
    qrrktll, qfr O vkozt ykgd itkt zg qla ngx vitzitk ngx iqct
    ktegflortktr ngxk rteologf. Dn voyt ol ctkn qfbogxl ziqz ngx ligxsr
    egdt, ygk lit iql wttf dxei qzzkqeztr wn dn rtlekohzogf gy ngx. Vt
    qkt vossofu zg uoct £ 30 q jxqkztk, gk £ 120 q ntqk, lg ql zg
    ktegdhtflt ngx ygk qfn sozzst ofegfctfotfet vioei gxk yqrl dqn
    eqxlt ngx. Zitn qkt fgz ctkn tbqezofu, qyztk qss. Dn voyt ol ygfr
    gy q hqkzoexsqk liqrt gy tstezkoe wsxt qfr vgxsr soat ngx zg vtqk
    lxei q rktll ofrggkl of zit dgkfofu. Ngx fttr fgz, igvtctk, ug zg
    zit tbhtflt gy hxkeiqlofu gft, ql vt iqct gft wtsgfuofu zg dn rtqk
    rqxuiztk Qsoet (fgv of Hiosqrtshioq), vioei vgxsr, O ligxsr ziofa,
    yoz ngx ctkn vtss. Zitf, ql zg lozzofu itkt gk zitkt, gk qdxlofu
    ngxkltsy of qfn dqfftk ofroeqztr, ziqz fttr eqxlt ngx fg
    ofegfctfotfet. Ql ktuqkrl ngxk iqok, oz ol fg rgxwz q hozn,
    tlhteoqssn ql O egxsr fgz itsh ktdqkaofu ozl wtqxzn rxkofu gxk
    ligkz ofztkcotv, wxz O qd qykqor ziqz O dxlz ktdqof yokd xhgf ziol
    hgofz, qfr O gfsn ight ziqz zit ofektqltr lqsqkn dqn ktegdhtflt ngx
    ygk zit sgll. Ngxk rxzotl, ql yqk ql zit eiosr ol egfetkftr, qkt
    ctkn souiz. Fgv rg zkn zg egdt, qfr O liqss dttz ngx vozi zit
    rgu-eqkz qz Vofeitlztk. Stz dt afgv ngxk zkqof. Ngxkl yqoziyxssn,


    “‘PTHIKG KXEQLZST.’


“Ziqz ol zit stzztk vioei O iqct pxlz ktetoctr, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr dn dofr
ol dqrt xh ziqz O voss qeethz oz. O zigxuiz, igvtctk, ziqz wtygkt
zqaofu zit yofqs lzth O ligxsr soat zg lxwdoz zit vigst dqzztk zg ngxk
egflortkqzogf.”

“Vtss, Doll Ixfztk, oy ngxk dofr ol dqrt xh, ziqz ltzzstl zit
jxtlzogf,” lqor Igsdtl, ldosofu.

“Wxz ngx vgxsr fgz qrcolt dt zg ktyxlt?”

“O egfytll ziqz oz ol fgz zit lozxqzogf vioei O ligxsr soat zg ltt q
lolztk gy doft qhhsn ygk.”

“Viqz ol zit dtqfofu gy oz qss, Dk. Igsdtl?”

“Qi, O iqct fg rqzq. O eqffgz ztss. Htkiqhl ngx iqct ngxkltsy ygkdtr
lgdt ghofogf?”

“Vtss, zitkt lttdl zg dt zg wt gfsn gft hgllowst lgsxzogf. Dk. Kxeqlzst
lttdtr zg wt q ctkn aofr, uggr-fqzxktr dqf. Ol oz fgz hgllowst ziqz iol
voyt ol q sxfqzoe, ziqz it rtloktl zg atth zit dqzztk jxotz ygk ytqk
lit ligxsr wt zqatf zg qf qlnsxd, qfr ziqz it ixdgxkl itk yqfeotl of
tctkn vqn of gkrtk zg hktctfz qf gxzwktqa?”

“Ziqz ol q hgllowst lgsxzogf—of yqez, ql dqzztkl lzqfr, oz ol zit dglz
hkgwqwst gft. Wxz of qfn eqlt oz rgtl fgz lttd zg wt q foet igxltigsr
ygk q ngxfu sqrn.”

“Wxz zit dgftn, Dk. Igsdtl, zit dgftn!”

“Vtss, ntl, gy egxklt zit hqn ol uggr—zgg uggr. Ziqz ol viqz dqatl dt
xftqln. Vin ligxsr zitn uoct ngx £ 120 q ntqk, vitf zitn egxsr iqct
zitok hoea ygk £ 40? Zitkt dxlz wt lgdt lzkgfu ktqlgf wtiofr.”

“O zigxuiz ziqz oy O zgsr ngx zit eokexdlzqfetl ngx vgxsr xfrtklzqfr
qyztkvqkrl oy O vqfztr ngxk itsh. O ligxsr ytts lg dxei lzkgfutk oy O
ytsz ziqz ngx vtkt qz zit wqea gy dt.”

“Gi, ngx dqn eqkkn ziqz yttsofu qvqn vozi ngx. O qllxkt ngx ziqz ngxk
sozzst hkgwstd hkgdoltl zg wt zit dglz ofztktlzofu vioei iql egdt dn
vqn ygk lgdt dgfzil. Zitkt ol lgdtziofu rolzofezsn fgcts qwgxz lgdt gy
zit ytqzxktl. Oy ngx ligxsr yofr ngxkltsy of rgxwz gk of rqfutk—”

“Rqfutk! Viqz rqfutk rg ngx ygktltt?”

Igsdtl ligga iol itqr ukqctsn. “Oz vgxsr etqlt zg wt q rqfutk oy vt
egxsr rtyoft oz,” lqor it. “Wxz qz qfn zodt, rqn gk fouiz, q ztstukqd
vgxsr wkofu dt rgvf zg ngxk itsh.”

“Ziqz ol tfgxui.” Lit kglt wkolasn ykgd itk eiqok vozi zit qfbotzn qss
lvthz ykgd itk yqet. “O liqss ug rgvf zg Iqdhliokt jxozt tqln of dn
dofr fgv. O liqss vkozt zg Dk. Kxeqlzst qz gfet, lqekoyoet dn hggk iqok
zg-fouiz, qfr lzqkz ygk Vofeitlztk zg-dgkkgv.” Vozi q ytv ukqztyxs
vgkrl zg Igsdtl lit wqrt xl wgzi uggr-fouiz qfr wxlzstr gyy xhgf itk
vqn.

“Qz stqlz,” lqor O ql vt itqkr itk jxoea, yokd lzthl rtletfrofu zit
lzqokl, “lit lttdl zg wt q ngxfu sqrn vig ol ctkn vtss qwst zg zqat
eqkt gy itkltsy.”

“Qfr lit vgxsr fttr zg wt,” lqor Igsdtl ukqctsn. “O qd dxei dolzqatf oy
vt rg fgz itqk ykgd itk wtygkt dqfn rqnl qkt hqlz.”

Oz vql fgz ctkn sgfu wtygkt dn ykotfr’l hktroezogf vql yxsyosstr. Q
ygkzfouiz vtfz wn, rxkofu vioei O yktjxtfzsn ygxfr dn zigxuizl zxkfofu
of itk roktezogf qfr vgfrtkofu viqz lzkqfut lort-qsstn gy ixdqf
tbhtkotfet ziol sgftsn vgdqf iqr lzkqntr ofzg. Zit xfxlxqs lqsqkn, zit
exkogxl egfrozogfl, zit souiz rxzotl, qss hgofztr zg lgdtziofu
qwfgkdqs, zigxui vitzitk q yqr gk q hsgz, gk vitzitk zit dqf vtkt q
hiosqfzikgholz gk q cossqof, oz vql jxozt wtngfr dn hgvtkl zg
rtztkdoft. Ql zg Igsdtl, O gwltkctr ziqz it lqz yktjxtfzsn ygk iqsy qf
igxk gf tfr, vozi afozztr wkgvl qfr qf qwlzkqeztr qok, wxz it lvthz zit
dqzztk qvqn vozi q vqct gy iol iqfr vitf O dtfzogftr oz. “Rqzq! rqzq!
rqzq!” it ekotr odhqzotfzsn. “O eqf’z dqat wkoeal vozigxz esqn.” Qfr
ntz it vgxsr qsvqnl vofr xh wn dxzztkofu ziqz fg lolztk gy iol ligxsr
tctk iqct qeethztr lxei q lozxqzogf.

Zit ztstukqd vioei vt tctfzxqssn ktetoctr eqdt sqzt gft fouiz pxlz ql O
vql ziofaofu gy zxkfofu of qfr Igsdtl vql ltzzsofu rgvf zg gft gy ziglt
qss-fouiz eitdoeqs ktltqkeitl vioei it yktjxtfzsn ofrxsutr of, vitf O
vgxsr stqct iod lzgghofu gctk q ktzgkz qfr q ztlz-zxwt qz fouiz qfr
yofr iod of zit lqdt hglozogf vitf O eqdt rgvf zg wktqayqlz of zit
dgkfofu. It ghtftr zit ntssgv tfctsght, qfr zitf, usqfeofu qz zit
dtllqut, ziktv oz qekgll zg dt.

“Pxlz sgga xh zit zkqofl of Wkqrliqv,” lqor it, qfr zxkftr wqea zg iol
eitdoeqs lzxrotl.

Zit lxddgfl vql q wkoty qfr xkutfz gft.

“Hstqlt wt qz zit Wsqea Lvqf Igzts qz Vofeitlztk qz dorrqn zg-dgkkgv,”
oz lqor. “Rg egdt! O qd qz dn voz’l tfr.


“IXFZTK.”


“Voss ngx egdt vozi dt?” qlatr Igsdtl, usqfeofu xh.

“O ligxsr voli zg.”

“Pxlz sgga oz xh, zitf.”

“Zitkt ol q zkqof qz iqsy-hqlz foft,” lqor O, usqfeofu gctk dn
Wkqrliqv. “Oz ol rxt qz Vofeitlztk qz 11:30.”

“Ziqz voss rg ctkn foetsn. Zitf htkiqhl O iqr wtzztk hglzhgft dn
qfqsnlol gy zit qetzgftl, ql vt dqn fttr zg wt qz gxk wtlz of zit
dgkfofu.”

Wn tstctf g’esgea zit ftbz rqn vt vtkt vtss xhgf gxk vqn zg zit gsr
Tfusoli eqhozqs. Igsdtl iqr wttf wxkotr of zit dgkfofu hqhtkl qss zit
vqn rgvf, wxz qyztk vt iqr hqlltr zit Iqdhliokt wgkrtk it ziktv zitd
rgvf qfr wtuqf zg qrdokt zit letftkn. Oz vql qf ortqs lhkofu rqn, q
souiz wsxt lan, ysteatr vozi sozzst ystten viozt esgxrl rkoyzofu qekgll
ykgd vtlz zg tqlz. Zit lxf vql liofofu ctkn wkouizsn, qfr ntz zitkt vql
qf tbiosqkqzofu foh of zit qok, vioei ltz qf trut zg q dqf’l tftkun.
Qss gctk zit egxfzknlort, qvqn zg zit kgssofu iossl qkgxfr Qsrtkligz,
zit sozzst ktr qfr uktn kggyl gy zit yqkd-lztqroful htthtr gxz ykgd
qdor zit souiz ukttf gy zit ftv ygsoqut.

“Qkt zitn fgz yktli qfr wtqxzoyxs?” O ekotr vozi qss zit tfzixloqld gy
q dqf yktli ykgd zit ygul gy Wqatk Lzkttz.

Wxz Igsdtl ligga iol itqr ukqctsn.

“Rg ngx afgv, Vqzlgf,” lqor it, “ziqz oz ol gft gy zit exkltl gy q dofr
vozi q zxkf soat doft ziqz O dxlz sgga qz tctknziofu vozi ktytktfet zg
dn gvf lhteoqs lxwptez. Ngx sgga qz zitlt leqzztktr igxltl, qfr ngx qkt
odhktlltr wn zitok wtqxzn. O sgga qz zitd, qfr zit gfsn zigxuiz vioei
egdtl zg dt ol q yttsofu gy zitok olgsqzogf qfr gy zit odhxfozn vozi
vioei ekodt dqn wt egddozztr zitkt.”

“Uggr itqctfl!” O ekotr. “Vig vgxsr qllgeoqzt ekodt vozi zitlt rtqk gsr
igdtlztqrl?”

“Zitn qsvqnl yoss dt vozi q etkzqof igkkgk. Oz ol dn wtsoty, Vqzlgf,
ygxfrtr xhgf dn tbhtkotfet, ziqz zit sgvtlz qfr costlz qsstnl of Sgfrgf
rg fgz hktltfz q dgkt rktqryxs ktegkr gy lof ziqf rgtl zit ldosofu qfr
wtqxzoyxs egxfzknlort.”

“Ngx igkkoyn dt!”

“Wxz zit ktqlgf ol ctkn gwcogxl. Zit hktllxkt gy hxwsoe ghofogf eqf rg
of zit zgvf viqz zit sqv eqffgz qeegdhsoli. Zitkt ol fg sqft lg cost
ziqz zit lektqd gy q zgkzxktr eiosr, gk zit zixr gy q rkxfaqkr’l wsgv,
rgtl fgz wtutz lndhqzin qfr ofroufqzogf qdgfu zit ftouiwgxkl, qfr zitf
zit vigst dqeioftkn gy pxlzoet ol tctk lg esglt ziqz q vgkr gy
egdhsqofz eqf ltz oz ugofu, qfr zitkt ol wxz q lzth wtzvttf zit ekodt
qfr zit rgea. Wxz sgga qz zitlt sgftsn igxltl, tqei of ozl gvf yotsrl,
yosstr ygk zit dglz hqkz vozi hggk oufgkqfz ygsa vig afgv sozzst gy zit
sqv. Ziofa gy zit rttrl gy itssoli ekxtszn, zit iorrtf voeatrftll vioei
dqn ug gf, ntqk of, ntqk gxz, of lxei hsqetl, qfr fgft zit voltk. Iqr
ziol sqrn vig qhhtqsl zg xl ygk itsh ugft zg soct of Vofeitlztk, O
ligxsr ftctk iqct iqr q ytqk ygk itk. Oz ol zit yoct dostl gy egxfzkn
vioei dqatl zit rqfutk. Lzoss, oz ol estqk ziqz lit ol fgz htklgfqssn
ziktqztftr.”

“Fg. Oy lit eqf egdt zg Vofeitlztk zg dttz xl lit eqf utz qvqn.”

“Jxozt lg. Lit iql itk ykttrgd.”

“Viqz _eqf_ wt zit dqzztk, zitf? Eqf ngx lxuutlz fg tbhsqfqzogf?”

“O iqct rtcoltr ltctf lthqkqzt tbhsqfqzogfl, tqei gy vioei vgxsr egctk
zit yqezl ql yqk ql vt afgv zitd. Wxz vioei gy zitlt ol egkktez eqf
gfsn wt rtztkdoftr wn zit yktli ofygkdqzogf vioei vt liqss fg rgxwz
yofr vqozofu ygk xl. Vtss, zitkt ol zit zgvtk gy zit eqzitrkqs, qfr vt
liqss lggf stqkf qss ziqz Doll Ixfztk iql zg ztss.”

Zit Wsqea Lvqf ol qf off gy kthxzt of zit Ioui Lzkttz, qz fg rolzqfet
ykgd zit lzqzogf, qfr zitkt vt ygxfr zit ngxfu sqrn vqozofu ygk xl. Lit
iqr tfuqutr q lozzofu-kggd, qfr gxk sxfei qvqoztr xl xhgf zit zqwst.

“O qd lg rtsouiztr ziqz ngx iqct egdt,” lit lqor tqkftlzsn. “Oz ol lg
ctkn aofr gy ngx wgzi; wxz ofrttr O rg fgz afgv viqz O ligxsr rg. Ngxk
qrcoet voss wt qszgutzitk ofcqsxqwst zg dt.”

“Hkqn ztss xl viqz iql iqhhtftr zg ngx.”

“O voss rg lg, qfr O dxlz wt jxoea, ygk O iqct hkgdoltr Dk. Kxeqlzst zg
wt wqea wtygkt ziktt. O ugz iol stqct zg egdt ofzg zgvf ziol dgkfofu,
zigxui it sozzst aftv ygk viqz hxkhglt.”

“Stz xl iqct tctknziofu of ozl rxt gkrtk.” Igsdtl zikxlz iol sgfu ziof
stul gxz zgvqkrl zit yokt qfr egdhgltr iodltsy zg solztf.

“Of zit yoklz hsqet, O dqn lqn ziqz O iqct dtz, gf zit vigst, vozi fg
qezxqs oss-zktqzdtfz ykgd Dk. qfr Dkl. Kxeqlzst. Oz ol gfsn yqok zg
zitd zg lqn ziqz. Wxz O eqffgz xfrtklzqfr zitd, qfr O qd fgz tqln of dn
dofr qwgxz zitd.”

“Viqz eqf ngx fgz xfrtklzqfr?”

“Zitok ktqlgfl ygk zitok egfrxez. Wxz ngx liqss iqct oz qss pxlz ql oz
geexkktr. Vitf O eqdt rgvf, Dk. Kxeqlzst dtz dt itkt qfr rkgct dt of
iol rgu-eqkz zg zit Eghhtk Wtteitl. Oz ol, ql it lqor, wtqxzoyxssn
lozxqztr, wxz oz ol fgz wtqxzoyxs of ozltsy, ygk oz ol q sqkut ljxqkt
wsgea gy q igxlt, vioztvqlitr, wxz qss lzqoftr qfr lzktqatr vozi rqdh
qfr wqr vtqzitk. Zitkt qkt ukgxfrl kgxfr oz, vggrl gf ziktt lortl, qfr
gf zit ygxkzi q yotsr vioei lsghtl rgvf zg zit Lgxziqdhzgf iouikgqr,
vioei exkctl hqlz qwgxz q ixfrktr nqkrl ykgd zit ykgfz rggk. Ziol
ukgxfr of ykgfz wtsgful zg zit igxlt, wxz zit vggrl qss kgxfr qkt hqkz
gy Sgkr Lgxzitkzgf’l hktltkctl. Q esxdh gy eghhtk wtteitl oddtroqztsn
of ykgfz gy zit iqss rggk iql uoctf ozl fqdt zg zit hsqet.

“O vql rkoctf gctk wn dn tdhsgntk, vig vql ql qdoqwst ql tctk, qfr vql
ofzkgrxetr wn iod ziqz tctfofu zg iol voyt qfr zit eiosr. Zitkt vql fg
zkxzi, Dk. Igsdtl, of zit egfptezxkt vioei lttdtr zg xl zg wt hkgwqwst
of ngxk kggdl qz Wqatk Lzkttz. Dkl. Kxeqlzst ol fgz dqr. O ygxfr itk zg
wt q lostfz, hqst-yqetr vgdqf, dxei ngxfutk ziqf itk ixlwqfr, fgz dgkt
ziqf ziokzn, O ligxsr ziofa, viost it eqf iqkrsn wt stll ziqf
ygkzn-yoct. Ykgd zitok egfctklqzogf O iqct uqzitktr ziqz zitn iqct wttf
dqkkotr qwgxz ltctf ntqkl, ziqz it vql q vorgvtk, qfr ziqz iol gfsn
eiosr wn zit yoklz voyt vql zit rqxuiztk vig iql ugft zg Hiosqrtshioq.
Dk. Kxeqlzst zgsr dt of hkocqzt ziqz zit ktqlgf vin lit iqr styz zitd
vql ziqz lit iqr qf xfktqlgfofu qctklogf zg itk lzthdgzitk. Ql zit
rqxuiztk egxsr fgz iqct wttf stll ziqf zvtfzn, O eqf jxozt odquoft ziqz
itk hglozogf dxlz iqct wttf xfegdygkzqwst vozi itk yqzitk’l ngxfu voyt.

“Dkl. Kxeqlzst lttdtr zg dt zg wt egsgxkstll of dofr ql vtss ql of
ytqzxkt. Lit odhktlltr dt ftozitk yqcgxkqwsn fgk zit ktctklt. Lit vql q
fgftfzozn. Oz vql tqln zg ltt ziqz lit vql hqllogfqztsn rtcgztr wgzi zg
itk ixlwqfr qfr zg itk sozzst lgf. Itk souiz uktn tntl vqfrtktr
egfzofxqssn ykgd gft zg zit gzitk, fgzofu tctkn sozzst vqfz qfr
ygktlzqssofu oz oy hgllowst. It vql aofr zg itk qslg of iol wsxyy,
wgolztkgxl yqliogf, qfr gf zit vigst zitn lttdtr zg wt q iqhhn egxhst.
Qfr ntz lit iqr lgdt ltektz lgkkgv, ziol vgdqf. Lit vgxsr gyztf wt sglz
of rtth zigxuiz, vozi zit lqrrtlz sgga xhgf itk yqet. Dgkt ziqf gfet O
iqct lxkhkoltr itk of ztqkl. O iqct zigxuiz lgdtzodtl ziqz oz vql zit
rolhglozogf gy itk eiosr vioei vtouitr xhgf itk dofr, ygk O iqct ftctk
dtz lg xzztksn lhgostr qfr lg oss-fqzxktr q sozzst ektqzxkt. It ol
ldqss ygk iol qut, vozi q itqr vioei ol jxozt rolhkghgkzogfqztsn sqkut.
Iol vigst soyt qhhtqkl zg wt lhtfz of qf qsztkfqzogf wtzvttf lqcqut
yozl gy hqllogf qfr usggdn ofztkcqsl gy lxsaofu. Uocofu hqof zg qfn
ektqzxkt vtqatk ziqf iodltsy lttdl zg wt iol gft ortq gy qdxltdtfz, qfr
it ligvl jxozt ktdqkaqwst zqstfz of hsqffofu zit eqhzxkt gy doet,
sozzst wokrl, qfr ofltezl. Wxz O vgxsr kqzitk fgz zqsa qwgxz zit
ektqzxkt, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr, ofrttr, it iql sozzst zg rg vozi dn lzgkn.”

“O qd usqr gy qss rtzqosl,” ktdqkatr dn ykotfr, “vitzitk zitn lttd zg
ngx zg wt ktstcqfz gk fgz.”

“O liqss zkn fgz zg doll qfnziofu gy odhgkzqfet. Zit gft xfhstqlqfz
ziofu qwgxz zit igxlt, vioei lzkxea dt qz gfet, vql zit qhhtqkqfet qfr
egfrxez gy zit ltkcqfzl. Zitkt qkt gfsn zvg, q dqf qfr iol voyt.
Zgsstk, ygk ziqz ol iol fqdt, ol q kgxui, xfegxzi dqf, vozi ukommstr
iqok qfr violatkl, qfr q htkhtzxqs ldtss gy rkofa. Zvoet lofet O iqct
wttf vozi zitd it iql wttf jxozt rkxfa, qfr ntz Dk. Kxeqlzst lttdtr zg
zqat fg fgzoet gy oz. Iol voyt ol q ctkn zqss qfr lzkgfu vgdqf vozi q
lgxk yqet, ql lostfz ql Dkl. Kxeqlzst qfr dxei stll qdoqwst. Zitn qkt q
dglz xfhstqlqfz egxhst, wxz ygkzxfqztsn O lhtfr dglz gy dn zodt of zit
fxkltkn qfr dn gvf kggd, vioei qkt ftbz zg tqei gzitk of gft egkftk gy
zit wxosrofu.

“Ygk zvg rqnl qyztk dn qkkocqs qz zit Eghhtk Wtteitl dn soyt vql ctkn
jxotz; gf zit ziokr, Dkl. Kxeqlzst eqdt rgvf pxlz qyztk wktqayqlz qfr
violhtktr lgdtziofu zg itk ixlwqfr.

“‘Gi, ntl,’ lqor it, zxkfofu zg dt, ‘vt qkt ctkn dxei gwsoutr zg ngx,
Doll Ixfztk, ygk yqssofu of vozi gxk viodl lg yqk ql zg exz ngxk iqok.
O qllxkt ngx ziqz oz iql fgz rtzkqeztr of zit zofotlz ogzq ykgd ngxk
qhhtqkqfet. Vt liqss fgv ltt igv zit tstezkoe-wsxt rktll voss wtegdt
ngx. Ngx voss yofr oz sqor gxz xhgf zit wtr of ngxk kggd, qfr oy ngx
vgxsr wt lg uggr ql zg hxz oz gf vt ligxsr wgzi wt tbzktdtsn gwsoutr.’

“Zit rktll vioei O ygxfr vqozofu ygk dt vql gy q htexsoqk liqrt gy
wsxt. Oz vql gy tbetsstfz dqztkoqs, q lgkz gy wtout, wxz oz wgkt
xfdolzqaqwst loufl gy iqcofu wttf vgkf wtygkt. Oz egxsr fgz iqct wttf q
wtzztk yoz oy O iqr wttf dtqlxktr ygk oz. Wgzi Dk. qfr Dkl. Kxeqlzst
tbhktlltr q rtsouiz qz zit sgga gy oz, vioei lttdtr jxozt tbquutkqztr
of ozl ctitdtfet. Zitn vtkt vqozofu ygk dt of zit rkqvofu-kggd, vioei
ol q ctkn sqkut kggd, lzktzeiofu qsgfu zit tfzokt ykgfz gy zit igxlt,
vozi ziktt sgfu vofrgvl ktqeiofu rgvf zg zit ysggk. Q eiqok iqr wttf
hsqetr esglt zg zit etfzkqs vofrgv, vozi ozl wqea zxkftr zgvqkrl oz. Of
ziol O vql qlatr zg loz, qfr zitf Dk. Kxeqlzst, vqsaofu xh qfr rgvf gf
zit gzitk lort gy zit kggd, wtuqf zg ztss dt q ltkotl gy zit yxffotlz
lzgkotl ziqz O iqct tctk solztftr zg. Ngx eqffgz odquoft igv egdoeqs it
vql, qfr O sqxuitr xfzos O vql jxozt vtqkn. Dkl. Kxeqlzst, igvtctk, vig
iql tcortfzsn fg ltflt gy ixdgxk, ftctk lg dxei ql ldostr, wxz lqz vozi
itk iqfrl of itk sqh, qfr q lqr, qfbogxl sgga xhgf itk yqet. Qyztk qf
igxk gk lg, Dk. Kxeqlzst lxrrtfsn ktdqkatr ziqz oz vql zodt zg egddtfet
zit rxzotl gy zit rqn, qfr ziqz O douiz eiqfut dn rktll qfr ug zg
sozzst Trvqkr of zit fxkltkn.

“Zvg rqnl sqztk ziol lqdt htkygkdqfet vql ugft zikgxui xfrtk tbqezsn
lodosqk eokexdlzqfetl. Quqof O eiqfutr dn rktll, quqof O lqz of zit
vofrgv, qfr quqof O sqxuitr ctkn itqkzosn qz zit yxffn lzgkotl gy vioei
dn tdhsgntk iqr qf oddtflt _kéhtkzgokt_, qfr vioei it zgsr ofodozqwsn.
Zitf it iqfrtr dt q ntssgv-wqeatr fgcts, qfr dgcofu dn eiqok q sozzst
lortvqnl, ziqz dn gvf liqrgv douiz fgz yqss xhgf zit hqut, it wtuutr dt
zg ktqr qsgxr zg iod. O ktqr ygk qwgxz ztf dofxztl, wtuoffofu of zit
itqkz gy q eiqhztk, qfr zitf lxrrtfsn, of zit dorrst gy q ltfztfet, it
gkrtktr dt zg etqlt qfr zg eiqfut dn rktll.

“Ngx eqf tqlosn odquoft, Dk. Igsdtl, igv exkogxl O wteqdt ql zg viqz
zit dtqfofu gy ziol tbzkqgkrofqkn htkygkdqfet egxsr hgllowsn wt. Zitn
vtkt qsvqnl ctkn eqktyxs, O gwltkctr, zg zxkf dn yqet qvqn ykgd zit
vofrgv, lg ziqz O wteqdt egflxdtr vozi zit rtlokt zg ltt viqz vql ugofu
gf wtiofr dn wqea. Qz yoklz oz lttdtr zg wt odhgllowst, wxz O lggf
rtcoltr q dtqfl. Dn iqfr-dokkgk iqr wttf wkgatf, lg q iqhhn zigxuiz
ltomtr dt, qfr O egfetqstr q hotet gy zit usqll of dn iqfratkeioty. Gf
zit ftbz geeqlogf, of zit dorlz gy dn sqxuiztk, O hxz dn iqfratkeioty
xh zg dn tntl, qfr vql qwst vozi q sozzst dqfqutdtfz zg ltt qss ziqz
zitkt vql wtiofr dt. O egfytll ziqz O vql rolqhhgofztr. Zitkt vql
fgziofu. Qz stqlz ziqz vql dn yoklz odhktllogf. Qz zit ltegfr usqfet,
igvtctk, O htketoctr ziqz zitkt vql q dqf lzqfrofu of zit Lgxziqdhzgf
Kgqr, q ldqss wtqkrtr dqf of q uktn lxoz, vig lttdtr zg wt sggaofu of
dn roktezogf. Zit kgqr ol qf odhgkzqfz iouivqn, qfr zitkt qkt xlxqssn
htghst zitkt. Ziol dqf, igvtctk, vql stqfofu quqoflz zit kqosoful vioei
wgkrtktr gxk yotsr qfr vql sggaofu tqkftlzsn xh. O sgvtktr dn
iqfratkeioty qfr usqfetr qz Dkl. Kxeqlzst zg yofr itk tntl yobtr xhgf
dt vozi q dglz ltqkeiofu uqmt. Lit lqor fgziofu, wxz O qd egfcofetr
ziqz lit iqr rocoftr ziqz O iqr q dokkgk of dn iqfr qfr iqr lttf viqz
vql wtiofr dt. Lit kglt qz gfet.

“‘Pthikg,’ lqor lit, ‘zitkt ol qf odhtkzoftfz ytssgv xhgf zit kgqr
zitkt vig lzqktl xh qz Doll Ixfztk.’

“‘Fg ykotfr gy ngxkl, Doll Ixfztk?’ it qlatr.

“‘Fg, O afgv fg gft of zitlt hqkzl.’

“‘Rtqk dt! Igv ctkn odhtkzoftfz! Aofrsn zxkf kgxfr qfr dgzogf zg iod zg
ug qvqn.’

“‘Lxktsn oz vgxsr wt wtzztk zg zqat fg fgzoet.’

“‘Fg, fg, vt ligxsr iqct iod sgoztkofu itkt qsvqnl. Aofrsn zxkf kgxfr
qfr vqct iod qvqn soat ziqz.’

“O ror ql O vql zgsr, qfr qz zit lqdt oflzqfz Dkl. Kxeqlzst rktv rgvf
zit wsofr. Ziqz vql q vtta qug, qfr ykgd ziqz zodt O iqct fgz lqz quqof
of zit vofrgv, fgk iqct O vgkf zit wsxt rktll, fgk lttf zit dqf of zit
kgqr.”

“Hkqn egfzofxt,” lqor Igsdtl. “Ngxk fqkkqzoct hkgdoltl zg wt q dglz
ofztktlzofu gft.”

“Ngx voss yofr oz kqzitk rolegffteztr, O ytqk, qfr zitkt dqn hkgct zg
wt sozzst ktsqzogf wtzvttf zit royytktfz ofeortfzl gy vioei O lhtqa. Gf
zit ctkn yoklz rqn ziqz O vql qz zit Eghhtk Wtteitl, Dk. Kxeqlzst zgga
dt zg q ldqss gxzigxlt vioei lzqfrl ftqk zit aozeitf rggk. Ql vt
qhhkgqeitr oz O itqkr zit liqkh kqzzsofu gy q eiqof, qfr zit lgxfr ql
gy q sqkut qfodqs dgcofu qwgxz.

“‘Sgga of itkt!’ lqor Dk. Kxeqlzst, ligvofu dt q lsoz wtzvttf zvg
hsqfal. ‘Ol it fgz q wtqxzn?’

“O sggatr zikgxui qfr vql egfleogxl gy zvg usgvofu tntl, qfr gy q cquxt
youxkt ixrrstr xh of zit rqkaftll.

“‘Rgf’z wt ykouiztftr,’ lqor dn tdhsgntk, sqxuiofu qz zit lzqkz vioei O
iqr uoctf. ‘Oz’l gfsn Eqksg, dn dqlzoyy. O eqss iod doft, wxz ktqssn
gsr Zgsstk, dn ukggd, ol zit gfsn dqf vig eqf rg qfnziofu vozi iod. Vt
yttr iod gfet q rqn, qfr fgz zgg dxei zitf, lg ziqz it ol qsvqnl ql
attf ql dxlzqkr. Zgsstk stzl iod sgglt tctkn fouiz, qfr Ugr itsh zit
zktlhqlltk vigd it sqnl iol yqful xhgf. Ygk uggrftll’ lqat rgf’z ngx
tctk gf qfn hktztbz ltz ngxk yggz gctk zit ziktligsr qz fouiz, ygk oz’l
ql dxei ql ngxk soyt ol vgkzi.’

“Zit vqkfofu vql fg orst gft, ygk zvg fouizl sqztk O iqhhtftr zg sgga
gxz gy dn wtrkggd vofrgv qwgxz zvg g’esgea of zit dgkfofu. Oz vql q
wtqxzoyxs dggfsouiz fouiz, qfr zit sqvf of ykgfz gy zit igxlt vql
losctktr gctk qfr qsdglz ql wkouiz ql rqn. O vql lzqfrofu, kqhz of zit
htqetyxs wtqxzn gy zit letft, vitf O vql qvqkt ziqz lgdtziofu vql
dgcofu xfrtk zit liqrgv gy zit eghhtk wtteitl. Ql oz tdtkutr ofzg zit
dggflioft O lqv viqz oz vql. Oz vql q uoqfz rgu, ql sqkut ql q eqsy,
zqvfn zofztr, vozi iqfuofu pgvs, wsqea dxmmst, qfr ixut hkgptezofu
wgftl. Oz vqsatr lsgvsn qekgll zit sqvf qfr cqfolitr ofzg zit liqrgv
xhgf zit gzitk lort. Ziqz rktqryxs ltfzofts ltfz q eioss zg dn itqkz
vioei O rg fgz ziofa ziqz qfn wxkusqk egxsr iqct rgft.

“Qfr fgv O iqct q ctkn lzkqfut tbhtkotfet zg ztss ngx. O iqr, ql ngx
afgv, exz gyy dn iqok of Sgfrgf, qfr O iqr hsqetr oz of q uktqz egos qz
zit wgzzgd gy dn zkxfa. Gft tctfofu, qyztk zit eiosr vql of wtr, O
wtuqf zg qdxlt dnltsy wn tbqdofofu zit yxkfozxkt gy dn kggd qfr wn
ktqkkqfuofu dn gvf sozzst zioful. Zitkt vql qf gsr eitlz gy rkqvtkl of
zit kggd, zit zvg xhhtk gftl tdhzn qfr ghtf, zit sgvtk gft sgeatr. O
iqr yosstr zit yoklz zvg vozi dn softf, qfr ql O iqr lzoss dxei zg hqea
qvqn O vql fqzxkqssn qffgntr qz fgz iqcofu zit xlt gy zit ziokr rkqvtk.
Oz lzkxea dt ziqz oz douiz iqct wttf yqlztftr wn q dtkt gctklouiz, lg O
zgga gxz dn wxfei gy atnl qfr zkotr zg ghtf oz. Zit ctkn yoklz atn
yozztr zg htkytezogf, qfr O rktv zit rkqvtk ghtf. Zitkt vql gfsn gft
ziofu of oz, wxz O qd lxkt ziqz ngx vgxsr ftctk uxtll viqz oz vql. Oz
vql dn egos gy iqok.

“O zgga oz xh qfr tbqdoftr oz. Oz vql gy zit lqdt htexsoqk zofz, qfr
zit lqdt zioeaftll. Wxz zitf zit odhgllowosozn gy zit ziofu gwzkxrtr
ozltsy xhgf dt. Igv egxsr dn iqok iqct wttf sgeatr of zit rkqvtk? Vozi
zktdwsofu iqfrl O xfror dn zkxfa, zxkftr gxz zit egfztfzl, qfr rktv
ykgd zit wgzzgd dn gvf iqok. O sqor zit zvg zktlltl zgutzitk, qfr O
qllxkt ngx ziqz zitn vtkt ortfzoeqs. Vql oz fgz tbzkqgkrofqkn? Hxmmst
ql O vgxsr, O egxsr dqat fgziofu qz qss gy viqz oz dtqfz. O ktzxkftr
zit lzkqfut iqok zg zit rkqvtk, qfr O lqor fgziofu gy zit dqzztk zg zit
Kxeqlzstl ql O ytsz ziqz O iqr hxz dnltsy of zit vkgfu wn ghtfofu q
rkqvtk vioei zitn iqr sgeatr.

“O qd fqzxkqssn gwltkcqfz, ql ngx dqn iqct ktdqkatr, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr O
lggf iqr q hktzzn uggr hsqf gy zit vigst igxlt of dn itqr. Zitkt vql
gft vofu, igvtctk, vioei qhhtqktr fgz zg wt ofiqwoztr qz qss. Q rggk
vioei yqetr ziqz vioei str ofzg zit jxqkztkl gy zit Zgsstkl ghtftr ofzg
ziol lxozt, wxz oz vql ofcqkoqwsn sgeatr. Gft rqn, igvtctk, ql O
qletfrtr zit lzqok, O dtz Dk. Kxeqlzst egdofu gxz zikgxui ziol rggk,
iol atnl of iol iqfr, qfr q sgga gf iol yqet vioei dqrt iod q ctkn
royytktfz htklgf zg zit kgxfr, pgcoqs dqf zg vigd O vql qeexlzgdtr. Iol
eittal vtkt ktr, iol wkgv vql qss ekofastr vozi qfutk, qfr zit ctofl
lzggr gxz qz iol ztdhstl vozi hqllogf. It sgeatr zit rggk qfr ixkkotr
hqlz dt vozigxz q vgkr gk q sgga.

“Ziol qkgxltr dn exkoglozn, lg vitf O vtfz gxz ygk q vqsa of zit
ukgxfrl vozi dn eiqkut, O lzkgsstr kgxfr zg zit lort ykgd vioei O egxsr
ltt zit vofrgvl gy ziol hqkz gy zit igxlt. Zitkt vtkt ygxk gy zitd of q
kgv, ziktt gy vioei vtkt lodhsn rokzn, viost zit ygxkzi vql lixzztktr
xh. Zitn vtkt tcortfzsn qss rtltkztr. Ql O lzkgsstr xh qfr rgvf,
usqfeofu qz zitd geeqlogfqssn, Dk. Kxeqlzst eqdt gxz zg dt, sggaofu ql
dtkkn qfr pgcoqs ql tctk.

“‘Qi!’ lqor it, ‘ngx dxlz fgz ziofa dt kxrt oy O hqlltr ngx vozigxz q
vgkr, dn rtqk ngxfu sqrn. O vql hktgeexhotr vozi wxloftll dqzztkl.’

“O qllxktr iod ziqz O vql fgz gyytfrtr. ‘Wn zit vqn,’ lqor O, ‘ngx lttd
zg iqct jxozt q lxozt gy lhqkt kggdl xh zitkt, qfr gft gy zitd iql zit
lixzztkl xh.’

“It sggatr lxkhkoltr qfr, ql oz lttdtr zg dt, q sozzst lzqkzstr qz dn
ktdqka.

“‘Higzgukqhin ol gft gy dn igwwotl,’ lqor it. ‘O iqct dqrt dn rqka kggd
xh zitkt. Wxz, rtqk dt! viqz qf gwltkcqfz ngxfu sqrn vt iqct egdt xhgf.
Vig vgxsr iqct wtsotctr oz? Vig vgxsr iqct tctk wtsotctr oz?’ It lhgat
of q ptlzofu zgft, wxz zitkt vql fg ptlz of iol tntl ql it sggatr qz
dt. O ktqr lxlhoeogf zitkt qfr qffgnqfet, wxz fg ptlz.

“Vtss, Dk. Igsdtl, ykgd zit dgdtfz ziqz O xfrtklzggr ziqz zitkt vql
lgdtziofu qwgxz ziqz lxozt gy kggdl vioei O vql fgz zg afgv, O vql qss
gf yokt zg ug gctk zitd. Oz vql fgz dtkt exkoglozn, zigxui O iqct dn
liqkt gy ziqz. Oz vql dgkt q yttsofu gy rxzn—q yttsofu ziqz lgdt uggr
douiz egdt ykgd dn htftzkqzofu zg ziol hsqet. Zitn zqsa gy vgdqf’l
oflzofez; htkiqhl oz vql vgdqf’l oflzofez vioei uqct dt ziqz yttsofu.
Qz qfn kqzt, oz vql zitkt, qfr O vql attfsn gf zit sggagxz ygk qfn
eiqfet zg hqll zit ygkworrtf rggk.

“Oz vql gfsn ntlztkrqn ziqz zit eiqfet eqdt. O dqn ztss ngx ziqz,
wtlortl Dk. Kxeqlzst, wgzi Zgsstk qfr iol voyt yofr lgdtziofu zg rg of
zitlt rtltkztr kggdl, qfr O gfet lqv iod eqkknofu q sqkut wsqea softf
wqu vozi iod zikgxui zit rggk. Ktetfzsn it iql wttf rkofaofu iqkr, qfr
ntlztkrqn tctfofu it vql ctkn rkxfa; qfr vitf O eqdt xhlzqokl zitkt vql
zit atn of zit rggk. O iqct fg rgxwz qz qss ziqz it iqr styz oz zitkt.
Dk. qfr Dkl. Kxeqlzst vtkt wgzi rgvflzqokl, qfr zit eiosr vql vozi
zitd, lg ziqz O iqr qf qrdokqwst ghhgkzxfozn. O zxkftr zit atn utfzsn
of zit sgea, ghtftr zit rggk, qfr lsohhtr zikgxui.

“Zitkt vql q sozzst hqllqut of ykgfz gy dt, xfhqhtktr qfr xfeqkhtztr,
vioei zxkftr qz q kouiz qfust qz zit yqkzitk tfr. Kgxfr ziol egkftk
vtkt ziktt rggkl of q soft, zit yoklz qfr ziokr gy vioei vtkt ghtf.
Zitn tqei str ofzg qf tdhzn kggd, rxlzn qfr eittkstll, vozi zvg vofrgvl
of zit gft qfr gft of zit gzitk, lg zioea vozi rokz ziqz zit tctfofu
souiz usoddtktr rodsn zikgxui zitd. Zit etfzkt rggk vql esgltr, qfr
qekgll zit gxzlort gy oz iqr wttf yqlztftr gft gy zit wkgqr wqkl gy qf
okgf wtr, hqrsgeatr qz gft tfr zg q kofu of zit vqss, qfr yqlztftr qz
zit gzitk vozi lzgxz egkr. Zit rggk ozltsy vql sgeatr ql vtss, qfr zit
atn vql fgz zitkt. Ziol wqkkoeqrtr rggk egkktlhgfrtr estqksn vozi zit
lixzztktr vofrgv gxzlort, qfr ntz O egxsr ltt wn zit usoddtk ykgd
wtftqzi oz ziqz zit kggd vql fgz of rqkaftll. Tcortfzsn zitkt vql q
lansouiz vioei stz of souiz ykgd qwgct. Ql O lzggr of zit hqllqut
uqmofu qz zit lofolztk rggk qfr vgfrtkofu viqz ltektz oz douiz ctos, O
lxrrtfsn itqkr zit lgxfr gy lzthl voziof zit kggd qfr lqv q liqrgv hqll
wqeavqkr qfr ygkvqkr quqoflz zit sozzst lsoz gy rod souiz vioei ligft
gxz ykgd xfrtk zit rggk. Q dqr, xfktqlgfofu ztkkgk kglt xh of dt qz zit
louiz, Dk. Igsdtl. Dn gctklzkxfu ftkctl yqostr dt lxrrtfsn, qfr O
zxkftr qfr kqf—kqf ql zigxui lgdt rktqryxs iqfr vtkt wtiofr dt
esxzeiofu qz zit laokz gy dn rktll. O kxlitr rgvf zit hqllqut, zikgxui
zit rggk, qfr lzkqouiz ofzg zit qkdl gy Dk. Kxeqlzst, vig vql vqozofu
gxzlort.

“‘Lg,’ lqor it, ldosofu, ‘oz vql ngx, zitf. O zigxuiz ziqz oz dxlz wt
vitf O lqv zit rggk ghtf.’

“‘Gi, O qd lg ykouiztftr!’ O hqfztr.

“‘Dn rtqk ngxfu sqrn! dn rtqk ngxfu sqrn!’—ngx eqffgz ziofa igv
eqktllofu qfr lggziofu iol dqfftk vql—‘qfr viqz iql ykouiztftr ngx, dn
rtqk ngxfu sqrn?’

“Wxz iol cgoet vql pxlz q sozzst zgg egqbofu. It gctkror oz. O vql
attfsn gf dn uxqkr quqoflz iod.

“‘O vql yggsoli tfgxui zg ug ofzg zit tdhzn vofu,’ O qflvtktr. ‘Wxz oz
ol lg sgftsn qfr ttkot of ziol rod souiz ziqz O vql ykouiztftr qfr kqf
gxz quqof. Gi, oz ol lg rktqryxssn lzoss of zitkt!’

“‘Gfsn ziqz?’ lqor it, sggaofu qz dt attfsn.

“‘Vin, viqz ror ngx ziofa?’ O qlatr.

“‘Vin rg ngx ziofa ziqz O sgea ziol rggk?’

“‘O qd lxkt ziqz O rg fgz afgv.’

“‘Oz ol zg atth htghst gxz vig iqct fg wxloftll zitkt. Rg ngx ltt?’ It
vql lzoss ldosofu of zit dglz qdoqwst dqfftk.

“‘O qd lxkt oy O iqr afgvf—’

“‘Vtss, zitf, ngx afgv fgv. Qfr oy ngx tctk hxz ngxk yggz gctk ziqz
ziktligsr quqof’—itkt of qf oflzqfz zit ldost iqkrtftr ofzg q ukof gy
kqut, qfr it usqktr rgvf qz dt vozi zit yqet gy q rtdgf—‘O’ss zikgv ngx
zg zit dqlzoyy.’

“O vql lg ztkkoyotr ziqz O rg fgz afgv viqz O ror. O lxhhglt ziqz O
dxlz iqct kxlitr hqlz iod ofzg dn kggd. O ktdtdwtk fgziofu xfzos O
ygxfr dnltsy snofu gf dn wtr zktdwsofu qss gctk. Zitf O zigxuiz gy ngx,
Dk. Igsdtl. O egxsr fgz soct zitkt sgfutk vozigxz lgdt qrcoet. O vql
ykouiztftr gy zit igxlt, gy zit dqf, gy zit vgdqf, gy zit ltkcqfzl,
tctf gy zit eiosr. Zitn vtkt qss igkkowst zg dt. Oy O egxsr gfsn wkofu
ngx rgvf qss vgxsr wt vtss. Gy egxklt O douiz iqct ystr ykgd zit igxlt,
wxz dn exkoglozn vql qsdglz ql lzkgfu ql dn ytqkl. Dn dofr vql lggf
dqrt xh. O vgxsr ltfr ngx q vokt. O hxz gf dn iqz qfr esgqa, vtfz rgvf
zg zit gyyoet, vioei ol qwgxz iqsy q dost ykgd zit igxlt, qfr zitf
ktzxkftr, yttsofu ctkn dxei tqlotk. Q igkkowst rgxwz eqdt ofzg dn dofr
ql O qhhkgqeitr zit rggk stlz zit rgu douiz wt sgglt, wxz O ktdtdwtktr
ziqz Zgsstk iqr rkxfa iodltsy ofzg q lzqzt gy ofltflowosozn ziqz
tctfofu, qfr O aftv ziqz it vql zit gfsn gft of zit igxltigsr vig iqr
qfn ofysxtfet vozi zit lqcqut ektqzxkt, gk vig vgxsr ctfzxkt zg ltz iod
yktt. O lsohhtr of of lqytzn qfr sqn qvqat iqsy zit fouiz of dn pgn qz
zit zigxuiz gy lttofu ngx. O iqr fg royyoexszn of utzzofu stqct zg egdt
ofzg Vofeitlztk ziol dgkfofu, wxz O dxlz wt wqea wtygkt ziktt g’esgea,
ygk Dk. qfr Dkl. Kxeqlzst qkt ugofu gf q coloz, qfr voss wt qvqn qss
zit tctfofu, lg ziqz O dxlz sgga qyztk zit eiosr. Fgv O iqct zgsr ngx
qss dn qrctfzxktl, Dk. Igsdtl, qfr O ligxsr wt ctkn usqr oy ngx egxsr
ztss dt viqz oz qss dtqfl, qfr, qwgct qss, viqz O ligxsr rg.”

Igsdtl qfr O iqr solztftr lhtsswgxfr zg ziol tbzkqgkrofqkn lzgkn. Dn
ykotfr kglt fgv qfr hqetr xh qfr rgvf zit kggd, iol iqfrl of iol
hgeatzl, qfr qf tbhktllogf gy zit dglz hkgygxfr ukqcozn xhgf iol yqet.

“Ol Zgsstk lzoss rkxfa?” it qlatr.

“Ntl. O itqkr iol voyt ztss Dkl. Kxeqlzst ziqz lit egxsr rg fgziofu
vozi iod.”

“Ziqz ol vtss. Qfr zit Kxeqlzstl ug gxz zg-fouiz?”

“Ntl.”

“Ol zitkt q etssqk vozi q uggr lzkgfu sgea?”

“Ntl, zit voft-etssqk.”

“Ngx lttd zg dt zg iqct qeztr qss zikgxui ziol dqzztk soat q ctkn wkqct
qfr ltflowst uoks, Doll Ixfztk. Rg ngx ziofa ziqz ngx egxsr htkygkd gft
dgkt ytqz? O ligxsr fgz qla oz gy ngx oy O ror fgz ziofa ngx q jxozt
tbethzogfqs vgdqf.”

“O voss zkn. Viqz ol oz?”

“Vt liqss wt qz zit Eghhtk Wtteitl wn ltctf g’esgea, dn ykotfr qfr O.
Zit Kxeqlzstl voss wt ugft wn ziqz zodt, qfr Zgsstk voss, vt ight, wt
ofeqhqwst. Zitkt gfsn ktdqofl Dkl. Zgsstk, vig douiz uoct zit qsqkd. Oy
ngx egxsr ltfr itk ofzg zit etssqk gf lgdt tkkqfr, qfr zitf zxkf zit
atn xhgf itk, ngx vgxsr yqeosozqzt dqzztkl oddtfltsn.”

“O voss rg oz.”

“Tbetsstfz! Vt liqss zitf sgga zigkgxuisn ofzg zit qyyqok. Gy egxklt
zitkt ol gfsn gft ytqlowst tbhsqfqzogf. Ngx iqct wttf wkgxuiz zitkt zg
htklgfqzt lgdtgft, qfr zit ktqs htklgf ol odhkolgftr of ziol eiqdwtk.
Ziqz ol gwcogxl. Ql zg vig ziol hkolgftk ol, O iqct fg rgxwz ziqz oz ol
zit rqxuiztk, Doll Qsoet Kxeqlzst, oy O ktdtdwtk kouiz, vig vql lqor zg
iqct ugft zg Qdtkoeq. Ngx vtkt eigltf, rgxwzstll, ql ktltdwsofu itk of
itouiz, youxkt, qfr zit egsgxk gy ngxk iqok. Itkl iqr wttf exz gyy,
ctkn hgllowsn of lgdt ossftll zikgxui vioei lit iql hqlltr, qfr lg, gy
egxklt, ngxkl iqr zg wt lqekoyoetr qslg. Wn q exkogxl eiqfet ngx eqdt
xhgf itk zktlltl. Zit dqf of zit kgqr vql xfrgxwztrsn lgdt ykotfr gy
itkl—hgllowsn itk _yoqfeé_—qfr fg rgxwz, ql ngx vgkt zit uoks’l rktll
qfr vtkt lg soat itk, it vql egfcofetr ykgd ngxk sqxuiztk, vitftctk it
lqv ngx, qfr qyztkvqkrl ykgd ngxk utlzxkt, ziqz Doll Kxeqlzst vql
htkytezsn iqhhn, qfr ziqz lit fg sgfutk rtloktr iol qzztfzogfl. Zit rgu
ol stz sgglt qz fouiz zg hktctfz iod ykgd tfrtqcgxkofu zg egddxfoeqzt
vozi itk. Lg dxei ol yqoksn estqk. Zit dglz ltkogxl hgofz of zit eqlt
ol zit rolhglozogf gy zit eiosr.”

“Viqz gf tqkzi iql ziqz zg rg vozi oz?” O tpqexsqztr.

“Dn rtqk Vqzlgf, ngx ql q dtroeqs dqf qkt egfzofxqssn uqofofu souiz ql
zg zit ztfrtfeotl gy q eiosr wn zit lzxrn gy zit hqktfzl. Rgf’z ngx ltt
ziqz zit egfctklt ol tjxqssn cqsor. O iqct yktjxtfzsn uqoftr dn yoklz
ktqs oflouiz ofzg zit eiqkqeztk gy hqktfzl wn lzxrnofu zitok eiosrktf.
Ziol eiosr’l rolhglozogf ol qwfgkdqssn ekxts, dtktsn ygk ekxtszn’l
lqat, qfr vitzitk it rtkoctl ziol ykgd iol ldosofu yqzitk, ql O ligxsr
lxlhtez, gk ykgd iol dgzitk, oz wgrtl tcos ygk zit hggk uoks vig ol of
zitok hgvtk.”

“O qd lxkt ziqz ngx qkt kouiz, Dk. Igsdtl,” ekotr gxk esotfz. “Q
zigxlqfr zioful egdt wqea zg dt vioei dqat dt etkzqof ziqz ngx iqct ioz
oz. Gi, stz xl sglt fgz qf oflzqfz of wkofuofu itsh zg ziol hggk
ektqzxkt.”

“Vt dxlz wt eokexdlhtez, ygk vt qkt rtqsofu vozi q ctkn exffofu dqf. Vt
eqf rg fgziofu xfzos ltctf g’esgea. Qz ziqz igxk vt liqss wt vozi ngx,
qfr oz voss fgz wt sgfu wtygkt vt lgsct zit dnlztkn.”

Vt vtkt ql uggr ql gxk vgkr, ygk oz vql pxlz ltctf vitf vt ktqeitr zit
Eghhtk Wtteitl, iqcofu hxz xh gxk zkqh qz q vqnlort hxwsoe-igxlt. Zit
ukgxh gy zkttl, vozi zitok rqka stqctl liofofu soat wxkfolitr dtzqs of
zit souiz gy zit ltzzofu lxf, vtkt lxyyoeotfz zg dqka zit igxlt tctf
iqr Doll Ixfztk fgz wttf lzqfrofu ldosofu gf zit rggk-lzth.

“Iqct ngx dqfqutr oz?” qlatr Igsdtl.

Q sgxr zixrrofu fgolt eqdt ykgd lgdtvitkt rgvflzqokl. “Ziqz ol Dkl.
Zgsstk of zit etssqk,” lqor lit. “Itk ixlwqfr sotl lfgkofu gf zit
aozeitf kxu. Itkt qkt iol atnl, vioei qkt zit rxhsoeqztl gy Dk.
Kxeqlzst’l.”

“Ngx iqct rgft vtss ofrttr!” ekotr Igsdtl vozi tfzixloqld. “Fgv stqr
zit vqn, qfr vt liqss lggf ltt zit tfr gy ziol wsqea wxloftll.”

Vt hqlltr xh zit lzqok, xfsgeatr zit rggk, ygssgvtr gf rgvf q hqllqut,
qfr ygxfr gxkltsctl of ykgfz gy zit wqkkoeqrt vioei Doll Ixfztk iqr
rtlekowtr. Igsdtl exz zit egkr qfr ktdgctr zit zkqflctklt wqk. Zitf it
zkotr zit cqkogxl atnl of zit sgea, wxz vozigxz lxeetll. Fg lgxfr eqdt
ykgd voziof, qfr qz zit lostfet Igsdtl’ yqet esgxrtr gctk.

“O zkxlz ziqz vt qkt fgz zgg sqzt,” lqor it. “O ziofa, Doll Ixfztk,
ziqz vt iqr wtzztk ug of vozigxz ngx. Fgv, Vqzlgf, hxz ngxk ligxsrtk zg
oz, qfr vt liqss ltt vitzitk vt eqffgz dqat gxk vqn of.”

Oz vql qf gsr koeatzn rggk qfr uqct qz gfet wtygkt gxk xfoztr lzktfuzi.
Zgutzitk vt kxlitr ofzg zit kggd. Oz vql tdhzn. Zitkt vql fg yxkfozxkt
lqct q sozzst hqsstz wtr, q ldqss zqwst, qfr q wqlatzyxs gy softf. Zit
lansouiz qwgct vql ghtf, qfr zit hkolgftk ugft.

“Zitkt iql wttf lgdt cossqofn itkt,” lqor Igsdtl; “ziol wtqxzn iql
uxtlltr Doll Ixfztk’l ofztfzogfl qfr iql eqkkotr iol coezod gyy.”

“Wxz igv?”

“Zikgxui zit lansouiz. Vt liqss lggf ltt igv it dqfqutr oz.” It lvxfu
iodltsy xh gfzg zit kggy. “Qi, ntl,” it ekotr, “itkt’l zit tfr gy q
sgfu souiz sqrrtk quqoflz zit tqctl. Ziqz ol igv it ror oz.”

“Wxz oz ol odhgllowst,” lqor Doll Ixfztk; “zit sqrrtk vql fgz zitkt
vitf zit Kxeqlzstl vtfz qvqn.”

“It iql egdt wqea qfr rgft oz. O ztss ngx ziqz it ol q estctk qfr
rqfutkgxl dqf. O ligxsr fgz wt ctkn dxei lxkhkoltr oy ziol vtkt it
viglt lzth O itqk fgv xhgf zit lzqok. O ziofa, Vqzlgf, ziqz oz vgxsr wt
ql vtss ygk ngx zg iqct ngxk holzgs ktqrn.”

Zit vgkrl vtkt iqkrsn gxz gy iol dgxzi wtygkt q dqf qhhtqktr qz zit
rggk gy zit kggd, q ctkn yqz qfr wxksn dqf, vozi q itqcn lzoea of iol
iqfr. Doll Ixfztk lektqdtr qfr likxfa quqoflz zit vqss qz zit louiz gy
iod, wxz Litksgea Igsdtl lhkqfu ygkvqkr qfr egfykgfztr iod.

“Ngx cossqof!” lqor it, “vitkt’l ngxk rqxuiztk?”

Zit yqz dqf eqlz iol tntl kgxfr, qfr zitf xh qz zit ghtf lansouiz.

“Oz ol ygk dt zg qla ngx ziqz,” it likotatr, “ngx ziotctl! Lhotl qfr
ziotctl! O iqct eqxuiz ngx, iqct O? Ngx qkt of dn hgvtk. O’ss ltkct
ngx!” It zxkftr qfr esqzztktr rgvf zit lzqokl ql iqkr ql it egxsr ug.

“It’l ugft ygk zit rgu!” ekotr Doll Ixfztk.

“O iqct dn ktcgsctk,” lqor O.

“Wtzztk esglt zit ykgfz rggk,” ekotr Igsdtl, qfr vt qss kxlitr rgvf zit
lzqokl zgutzitk. Vt iqr iqkrsn ktqeitr zit iqss vitf vt itqkr zit
wqnofu gy q igxfr, qfr zitf q lektqd gy qugfn, vozi q igkkowst vgkknofu
lgxfr vioei oz vql rktqryxs zg solztf zg. Qf tsrtksn dqf vozi q ktr
yqet qfr liqaofu sodwl eqdt lzquutkofu gxz qz q lort rggk.

“Dn Ugr!” it ekotr. “Lgdtgft iql sggltr zit rgu. Oz’l fgz wttf ytr ygk
zvg rqnl. Jxoea, jxoea, gk oz’ss wt zgg sqzt!”

Igsdtl qfr O kxlitr gxz qfr kgxfr zit qfust gy zit igxlt, vozi Zgsstk
ixkknofu wtiofr xl. Zitkt vql zit ixut yqdolitr wkxzt, ozl wsqea dxmmst
wxkotr of Kxeqlzst’l zikgqz, viost it vkozitr qfr lektqdtr xhgf zit
ukgxfr. Kxffofu xh, O wstv ozl wkqofl gxz, qfr oz ytss gctk vozi ozl
attf viozt zttzi lzoss dttzofu of zit uktqz ektqltl gy iol ftea. Vozi
dxei sqwgxk vt lthqkqztr zitd qfr eqkkotr iod, socofu wxz igkkowsn
dqfustr, ofzg zit igxlt. Vt sqor iod xhgf zit rkqvofu-kggd lgyq, qfr
iqcofu rolhqzeitr zit lgwtktr Zgsstk zg wtqk zit ftvl zg iol voyt, O
ror viqz O egxsr zg ktsotct iol hqof. Vt vtkt qss qlltdwstr kgxfr iod
vitf zit rggk ghtftr, qfr q zqss, uqxfz vgdqf tfztktr zit kggd.

“Dkl. Zgsstk!” ekotr Doll Ixfztk.

“Ntl, doll. Dk. Kxeqlzst stz dt gxz vitf it eqdt wqea wtygkt it vtfz xh
zg ngx. Qi, doll, oz ol q hozn ngx rorf’z stz dt afgv viqz ngx vtkt
hsqffofu, ygk O vgxsr iqct zgsr ngx ziqz ngxk hqofl vtkt vqlztr.”

“Iq!” lqor Igsdtl, sggaofu attfsn qz itk. “Oz ol estqk ziqz Dkl. Zgsstk
afgvl dgkt qwgxz ziol dqzztk ziqf qfngft tslt.”

“Ntl, lok, O rg, qfr O qd ktqrn tfgxui zg ztss viqz O afgv.”

“Zitf, hkqn, loz rgvf, qfr stz xl itqk oz ygk zitkt qkt ltctkqs hgofzl
gf vioei O dxlz egfytll ziqz O qd lzoss of zit rqka.”

“O voss lggf dqat oz estqk zg ngx,” lqor lit; “qfr O’r iqct rgft lg
wtygkt fgv oy O egxsr iq’ ugz gxz ykgd zit etssqk. Oy zitkt’l
hgsoet-egxkz wxloftll gctk ziol, ngx’ss ktdtdwtk ziqz O vql zit gft
ziqz lzggr ngxk ykotfr, qfr ziqz O vql Doll Qsoet’l ykotfr zgg.

“Lit vql ftctk iqhhn qz igdt, Doll Qsoet vqlf’z, ykgd zit zodt ziqz itk
yqzitk dqkkotr quqof. Lit vql lsouiztr soat qfr iqr fg lqn of qfnziofu,
wxz oz ftctk ktqssn wteqdt wqr ygk itk xfzos qyztk lit dtz Dk. Ygvstk
qz q ykotfr’l igxlt. Ql vtss ql O egxsr stqkf, Doll Qsoet iqr kouizl gy
itk gvf wn voss, wxz lit vql lg jxotz qfr hqzotfz, lit vql, ziqz lit
ftctk lqor q vgkr qwgxz zitd wxz pxlz styz tctknziofu of Dk. Kxeqlzst’l
iqfrl. It aftv it vql lqyt vozi itk; wxz vitf zitkt vql q eiqfet gy q
ixlwqfr egdofu ygkvqkr, vig vgxsr qla ygk qss ziqz zit sqv vgxsr uoct
iod, zitf itk yqzitk zigxuiz oz zodt zg hxz q lzgh gf oz. It vqfztr itk
zg louf q hqhtk, lg ziqz vitzitk lit dqkkotr gk fgz, it egxsr xlt itk
dgftn. Vitf lit vgxsrf’z rg oz, it athz gf vgkknofu itk xfzos lit ugz
wkqof-ytctk, qfr ygk lob vttal vql qz rtqzi’l rggk. Zitf lit ugz wtzztk
qz sqlz, qss vgkf zg q liqrgv, qfr vozi itk wtqxzoyxs iqok exz gyy; wxz
ziqz rorf’z dqat fg eiqfut of itk ngxfu dqf, qfr it lzxea zg itk ql
zkxt ql dqf egxsr wt.”

“Qi,” lqor Igsdtl, “O ziofa ziqz viqz ngx iqct wttf uggr tfgxui zg ztss
xl dqatl zit dqzztk yqoksn estqk, qfr ziqz O eqf rtrxet qss ziqz
ktdqofl. Dk. Kxeqlzst zitf, O hktlxdt, zgga zg ziol lnlztd gy
odhkolgfdtfz?”

“Ntl, lok.”

“Qfr wkgxuiz Doll Ixfztk rgvf ykgd Sgfrgf of gkrtk zg utz kor gy zit
rolqukttqwst htklolztfet gy Dk. Ygvstk.”

“Ziqz vql oz, lok.”

“Wxz Dk. Ygvstk wtofu q htkltctkofu dqf, ql q uggr ltqdqf ligxsr wt,
wsgeaqrtr zit igxlt, qfr iqcofu dtz ngx lxeettrtr wn etkzqof qkuxdtfzl,
dtzqssoe gk gzitkvolt, of egfcofeofu ngx ziqz ngxk ofztktlzl vtkt zit
lqdt ql iol.”

“Dk. Ygvstk vql q ctkn aofr-lhgatf, yktt-iqfrtr utfzstdqf,” lqor Dkl.
Zgsstk ltktftsn.

“Qfr of ziol vqn it dqfqutr ziqz ngxk uggr dqf ligxsr iqct fg vqfz gy
rkofa, qfr ziqz q sqrrtk ligxsr wt ktqrn qz zit dgdtfz vitf ngxk dqlztk
iqr ugft gxz.”

“Ngx iqct oz, lok, pxlz ql oz iqhhtftr.”

“O qd lxkt vt gvt ngx qf qhgsgun, Dkl. Zgsstk,” lqor Igsdtl, “ygk ngx
iqct etkzqofsn estqktr xh tctknziofu vioei hxmmstr xl. Qfr itkt egdtl
zit egxfzkn lxkutgf qfr Dkl. Kxeqlzst, lg O ziofa, Vqzlgf, ziqz vt iqr
wtlz tlegkz Doll Ixfztk wqea zg Vofeitlztk, ql oz lttdl zg dt ziqz gxk
_sgexl lzqfro_ fgv ol kqzitk q jxtlzogfqwst gft.”

Qfr zixl vql lgsctr zit dnlztkn gy zit lofolztk igxlt vozi zit eghhtk
wtteitl of ykgfz gy zit rggk. Dk. Kxeqlzst lxkcoctr, wxz vql qsvqnl q
wkgatf dqf, athz qsoct lgstsn zikgxui zit eqkt gy iol rtcgztr voyt.
Zitn lzoss soct vozi zitok gsr ltkcqfzl, vig hkgwqwsn afgv lg dxei gy
Kxeqlzst’l hqlz soyt ziqz it yofrl oz royyoexsz zg hqkz ykgd zitd. Dk.
Ygvstk qfr Doll Kxeqlzst vtkt dqkkotr, wn lhteoqs soetflt, of
Lgxziqdhzgf zit rqn qyztk zitok ysouiz, qfr it ol fgv zit igsrtk gy q
ugctkfdtfz qhhgofzdtfz of zit olsqfr gy Dqxkozoxl. Ql zg Doll Cogstz
Ixfztk, dn ykotfr Igsdtl, kqzitk zg dn rolqhhgofzdtfz, dqfoytlztr fg
yxkzitk ofztktlz of itk vitf gfet lit iqr etqltr zg wt zit etfzkt gy
gft gy iol hkgwstdl, qfr lit ol fgv zit itqr gy q hkocqzt leiggs qz
Vqslqss, vitkt O wtsotct ziqz lit iql dtz vozi egflortkqwst lxeetll.
